[four Sonnets (1922)] 
I1. 
Love, though for this you riddle me with darts, 
. 
And drag me at your chariot till I die, -. 
Oh, heavy prince! Oh, panderer of hearts! -. 
Yet hear me tell how in their throats they lie 
. 
Who shout you mighty: thick about my hair, 
. 
Day in, day out, your ominous arrows purr, 
. 
Who still am free, unto no querulous care 
. 
A fool, and in no temple worshiper! 
. 
I, that have bared me to your quiver's fire, 
.
 Lifted my face into its puny rain, 
.
 Do wreathe you Impotent to Evoke Desire 
.
 As you are Powerless to Elicit Pain! 
.
 (Now will the god, for blasphemy so brave, 
.
 Punish me, surely, with the shaft I crave!) II2. 
I think I should have loved you presently, 
. 
And given in earnest words I flung in jest; 
. 
And lifted honest eyes for you to see, 
. 
 And caught your hand against my cheek and breast; 
. 
And all my pretty follies flung aside 
. 
That won you to me, and beneath your gaze, 
. 
Naked of reticence and shorn of pride, 
. 
Spread like a chart my little wicked ways. 
. 
I, that had been to you, had you remained, 
.
 But one more waking from a recurrent dream, 
.
 Cherish no less the certain stakes I gained, 
.
 And walk your memory's halls, austere, supreme, 
.
 A ghost in marble of a girl you knew 
.
 Who would have loved you in a day or two. III3. 
Oh, think not I am faithful to a vow! 
. 
Faithless am I save to love's self alone. 
. 
Were you not lovely I would leave you now: 
. 
After the feet of beauty fly my own. 
. 
Were you not still my hunger's rarest food, 
. 
And water ever to my wildest thirst, 
. 
I would desert you -- think not but I would! -. 
And seek another as I sought you first. 
. 
 But you are mobile as the veering air, 
.
 And all your charms more changeful than the tide, 
.
 Wherefore to be inconstant is no care: 
.
 I have but to continue at your side. 
.
 So wanton, light and false, my love, are you, 
.
 I am most faithless when I most am true. IV4. 
I shall forget you presently, my dear, 
. 
So make the most of this, your little day, 
. 
Your little month, your little half a year, 
. 
Ere I forget, or die, or move away, 
. 
And we are done forever; by and by 
. 
I shall forget you, as I said, but now, 
. 
If you entreat me with your loveliest lie 
. 
I will protest you with my favorite vow. 
. 
I would indeed that love were longer-lived, 
.
 And vows were not so brittle as they are, 
.
 But so it is, and nature has contrived 
.
 To struggle on without a break thus far, -
.
 Whether or not we find what we are seeking 
.
 Is idle, biologically speaking. 
A Visit To The Asylum 
Once from a big, big building, 
When I was small, small, 
The queer folk in the windows 
Would smile at me and call. 
And in the hard wee gardens 
Such pleasant men would hoe: 
"Sir, may we touch the little girl's hair!"&mdash; 
It was so red, you know. 
They cut me coloured asters 
With shears so sharp and neat, 
They brought me grapes and plums and pears 
And pretty cakes to eat. 
And out of all the windows, 
No matter where we went, 
The merriest eyes would follow me 
And make me compliment. 
There were a thousand windows, 
All latticed up and down. 
And up to all the windows, 
When we went back to town, 
The queer folk put their faces, 
As gentle as could be; 
"Come again, little girl!" they called, and I 
Called back, "You come see me!" 
Afternoon On A Hill 
I will be the gladdest thing 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Under the sun! 
I will touch a hundred flowers 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And not pick one. 
I will look at cliffs and clouds 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;With quiet eyes, 
Watch the wind bow down the grass, 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And the grass rise. 
And when lights begin to show 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Up from the town, 
I will mark which must be mine, 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And then start down! 
Alms 
My heart is what it was before, 
A house where people come and go; 
But it is winter with your love, 
The sashes are beset with snow. 
I light the lamp and lay the cloth, 
I blow the coals to blaze again; 
But it is winter with your love, 
The frost is thick upon the pane.. 
I know a winter when it comes: 
The leaves are listless on the boughs; 
I watched your love a little while, 
And brought my plants into the house. 
I water them and turn them south, 
I snap the dead brown from the stem; 
But it is winter with your love, 
I only tend and water them. 
There was a time I stood and watched 
The small, ill-natured sparrows' fray; 
I loved the beggar that I fed, 
I cared for what he had to say, 
I stood and watched him out of sight: 
Today I reach around the door 
And set a bowl upon the step; 
My heart is what it was before, 
But it is winter with your love; 
I scatter crumbs upon the sill, 
And close the window, &mdash;and the birds 
May take or leave them, as they will. 
An Ancient Gesture 
I thought, as I wiped my eyes on the corner of my apron: 
Penelope did this too. 
And more than once: you can't keep weaving all day 
And undoing it all through the night; 
Your arms get tired, and the back of your neck gets tight; 
And along towards morning, when you think it will never be light, 
And your husband has been gone, and you don't know where, for years. 
Suddenly you burst into tears; 
There is simply nothing else to do. 
And I thought, as I wiped my eyes on the corner of my apron: 
This is an ancient gesture, authentic, antique, 
In the very best tradition, classic, Greek; 
Ulysses did this too. 
But only as a gesture,&mdash;a gesture which implied 
To the assembled throng that he was much too moved to speak. 
He learned it from Penelope... 
Penelope, who really cried. 
And Do You Think That Love Itself 
And do you think that love itself, 
Living in such an ugly house, 
Can prosper long?
	We meet and part; 
Our talk is all of heres and nows, 
Our conduct likewise; in no act 
Is any future, any past; 
Under our sly, unspoken pact, 
I KNOW with whom I saw you last, 
But I say nothing; and you know 
At six-fifteen to whom I go&mdash; 
Can even love be treated so? 
I KNOW, but I do not insist, 
Having stealth and tact, thought not enough, 
What hour your eye is on your wrist. 
No wild appeal, no mild rebuff 
Deflates the hour, leaves the wine flat&mdash; 
Yet if YOU drop the picked-up book 
To intercept my clockward look&mdash; 
Tell me, can love go on like that? 
Even the bored, insulted heart, 
That signed so long and tight a lease, 
Can BREAK it CONTRACT, slump in peace. 
And You As Well Must Die, Belovèd Dust 
And you as well must die, belovèd dust, 
And all your beauty stand you in no stead; 
This flawless, vital hand, this perfect head, 
This body of flame and steel, before the gust 
Of Death, or under his autumnal frost, 
Shall be as any leaf, be no less dead 
Than the first leaf that fell,this wonder fled, 
Altered, estranged, disintegrated, lost. 
Nor shall my love avail you in your hour. 
In spite of all my love, you will arise 
Upon that day and wander down the air 
Obscurely as the unattended flower, 
It mattering not how beautiful you were, 
Or how belovèd above all else that dies. 
Apostrophe To Man 
(On reflecting that the world 
is ready to go to war again) 
Detestable race, continue to expunge yourself, die out. 
Breed faster, crowd, encroach, sing hymns, build 
bombing airplanes; 
Make speeches, unveil statues, issue bonds, parade; 
Convert again into explosives the bewildered ammonia 
and the distracted cellulose; 
Convert again into putrescent matter drawing flies 
The hopeful bodies of the young; exhort, 
Pray, pull long faces, be earnest, 
be all but overcome, be photographed; 
Confer, perfect your formulae, commercialize 
Bacateria harmful to human tissue, 
Put death on the market; 
Breed, crowd, encroach, 
expand, expunge yourself, die out, 
Homo called sapiens. 
Ashes Of Life 
Love has gone and left me and the days are all alike; 
Eat I must, and sleep I will,&mdash;and would that night were 
here! 
But ah!&mdash;to lie awake and hear the slow hours strike! 
Would that it were day again!&mdash;with twilight near! 
Love has gone and left me and I don't know what to do; 
This or that or what you will is all the same to me; 
But all the things that I begin I leave before I'm through,&mdash; 
There's little use in anything as far as I can see. 
Love has gone and left me,&mdash;and the neighbors knock and 
borrow, 
And life goes on forever like the gnawing of a mouse,&mdash; 
And to-morrow and to-morrow and to-morrow and to-morrow 
There's this little street and this little house. 
Assault 
I 
I had forgotten how the frogs must sound 
After a year of silence, else I think 
I should not so have ventured forth alone 
At dusk upon this unfrequented road. 
II 
I am waylaid by Beauty. Who will walk 
Between me and the crying of the frogs? 
Oh, savage Beauty, suffer me to pass, 
That am a timid woman, on her way 
From one house to another! 
Autumn Daybreak 
Cold wind of autumn, blowing loud 
At dawn, a fortnight overdue, 
Jostling the doors, and tearing through 
My bedroom to rejoin the cloud, 
I know&mdash;for I can hear the hiss 
And scrape of leaves along the floor&mdash; 
How may boughs, lashed bare by this, 
Will rake the cluttered sky once more. 
Tardy, and somewhat south of east, 
The sun will rise at length, made known 
More by the meagre light increased 
Than by a disk in splendour shown; 
When, having but to turn my head, 
Through the stripped maple I shall see, 
Bleak and remembered, patched with red, 
The hill all summer hid from me. 
Being Young And Green 
Being Young and Green, I said in love's despite: 
Never in the world will I to living wight 
Give over, air my mind 
To anyone, 
Hang out its ancient secrets in the strong wind 
To be shredded and faded&mdash; 
Oh, me, invaded 
And sacked by the wind and the sun! 
Blight 
Hard seeds of hate I planted 
That should by now be grown,&mdash; 
Rough stalks, and from thick stamens 
A poisonous pollen blown, 
And odors rank, unbreathable, 
From dark corollas thrown! 
At dawn from my damp garden 
I shook the chilly dew; 
The thin boughs locked behind me 
That sprang to let me through; 
The blossoms slept,&mdash;I sought a place 
Where nothing lovely grew. 
And there, when day was breaking, 
I knelt and looked around: 
The light was near, the silence 
Was palpitant with sound; 
I drew my hate from out my breast
 And thrust it in the ground. 
Oh, ye so fiercely tended, 
Ye little seeds of hate! 
I bent above your growing 
Early and noon and late, 
Yet are ye drooped and pitiful,&mdash; 
I cannot rear ye straight! 
The sun seeks out my garden, 
No nook is left in shade, 
No mist nor mold nor mildew 
Endures on any blade, 
Sweet rain slants under every bough: 
Ye falter, and ye fade. 
Bluebeard 
This door you might not open, and you did; 
So enter now, and see for what slight thing 
You are betrayed... Here is no treasure hid, 
No cauldron, no clear crystal mirroring 
The sought-for truth, no heads of women slain 
For greed like yours, no writhings of distress, 
But only what you see... Look yet again&mdash; 
An empty room, cobwebbed and comfortless. 
Yet this alone out of my life I kept 
Unto myself, lest any know me quite; 
And you did so profane me when you crept 
Unto the threshold of this room to-night 
That I must never more behold your face. 
This now is yours. I seek another place. 
Burial 
Mine is a body that should die at sea! 
And have for a grave, instead of a grave 
Six feet deep and the length of me, 
All the water that is under the wave! 
And terrible fishes to seize my flesh, 
Such as a living man might fear, 
And eat me while I am firm and fresh,&mdash; 
Not wait till I've been dead for a year! 
Childhood Is The Kingdom Where Nobody Dies 
Childhood is not from birth to a certain age and at a certain age 
The child is grown, and puts away childish things. 
Childhood is the kingdom where nobody dies. 
Nobody that matters, that is. Distant relatives of course 
Die, whom one never has seen or has seen for an hour, 
And they gave one candy in a pink-and-green stripéd bag, or a jack-knife, 
And went away, and cannot really be said to have lived at all. 
And cats die. They lie on the floor and lash their tails, 
And their reticent fur is suddenly all in motion 
With fleas that one never knew were there, 
Polished and brown, knowing all there is to know, 
Trekking off into the living world. 
You fetch a shoe-box, but it's much too small, because she won't curl up now: 
So you find a bigger box, and bury her in the yard, and weep. 
But you do not wake up a month from then, two months 
A year from then, two years, in the middle of the night 
And weep, with your knuckles in your mouth, and say Oh, God! Oh, God! 
Childhood is the kingdom where nobody dies that matters, 
—mothers and fathers don't die. 
And if you have said, "For heaven's sake, must you always be kissing a 
person?" 
Or, "I do wish to gracious you'd stop tapping on the window with your 
thimble!" 
Tomorrow, or even the day after tomorrow if you're busy having fun, 
Is plenty of time to say, "I'm sorry, mother." 
To be grown up is to sit at the table with people who have died, 
who neither listen nor speak; 
Who do not drink their tea, though they always said 
Tea was such a comfort. 
Run down into the cellar and bring up the last jar of raspberries; 
they are not tempted. 
Flatter them, ask them what was it they said exactly 
That time, to the bishop, or to the overseer, or to Mrs. Mason; 
They are not taken in. 
Shout at them, get red in the face, rise, 
Drag them up out of their chairs by their stiff shoulders and shake 
them and yell at them; 
They are not startled, they are not even embarrassed; they slide 
back into their chairs. 
Your tea is cold now. 
You drink it standing up, 
And leave the house. 
Chorus 
Give away her gowns, 
Give away her shoes; 
She has no more use 
For her fragrant gowns; 
Take them all down, 
Blue, green, blue, 
Lilac, pink, blue, 
From their padded hangers; 
She will dance no more 
In her narrow shoes; 
Sweep her narrow shoes 
From the closet floor. 
City Trees 
The trees along this city street, 
Save for the traffic and the trains, 
Would make a sound as thin and sweet 
As trees in country lanes. 
And people standing in their shade 
Out of a shower, undoubtedly 
Would hear such music as is made 
Upon a country tree. 
Oh, little leaves that are so dumb 
Against the shrieking city air, 
I watch you when the wind has come,&mdash; 
I know what sound is there. 
Conscientious Objector 
I shall die, but 
that is all that I shall do for Death. 
I hear him leading his horse out of the stall; 
I hear the clatter on the barn-floor. 
He is in haste; he has business in Cuba, 
business in the Balkans, many calls to make this morning. 
But I will not hold the bridle 
while he clinches the girth. 
And he may mount by himself: 
I will not give him a leg up. 
Though he flick my shoulders with his whip, 
I will not tell him which way the fox ran. 
With his hoof on my breast, I will not tell him where 
the black boy hides in the swamp. 
I shall die, but that is all that I shall do for Death; 
I am not on his pay-roll. 
I will not tell him the whereabout of my friends 
nor of my enemies either. 
Though he promise me much, 
I will not map him the route to any man's door. 
Am I a spy in the land of the living, 
that I should deliver men to Death? 
Brother, the password and the plans of our city 
are safe with me; never through me Shall you be overcome. 
Counting-Out Rhyme 
Silver bark of beech, and sallow 
Bark of yellow birch and yellow 
Twig of willow. 
Stripe of green in moosewood maple, 
Colour seen in leaf of apple, 
Bark of popple. 
Wood of popple pale as moonbeam, 
Wood of oak for yoke and barn-beam, 
Wood of hornbeam. 
Silver bark of beech, and hollow 
Stem of elder, tall and yellow 
Twig of willow. 
Daphne 
Why do you follow me?&mdash; 
Any moment I can be 
Nothing but a laurel-tree. 
Any moment of the chase 
I can leave you in my place 
A pink bough for your embrace. 
Yet if over hill and hollow 
Still it is your will to follow, 
I am off;&mdash;to heel, Apollo! 
Departure 
It's little I care what path I take, 
And where it leads it's little I care; 
But out of this house, lest my heart break, 
I must go, and off somewhere. 
It's little I know what's in my heart, 
What's in my mind it's little I know, 
But there's that in me must up and start, 
And it's little I care where my feet go. 
I wish I could walk for a day and a night, 
And find me at dawn in a desolate place 
With never the rut of a road in sight, 
Nor the roof of a house, nor the eyes of a face. 
I wish I could walk till my blood should spout, 
And drop me, never to stir again, 
On a shore that is wide, for the tide is out, 
And the weedy rocks are bare to the rain. 
But dump or dock, where the path I take 
Brings up, it's little enough I care: 
And it's little I'd mind the fuss they'll make, 
Huddled dead in a ditch somewhere. 
'Is something the matter, dear,' she said, 
'That you sit at your work so silently?' 
'No, mother, no, 'twas a knot in my thread. 
There goes the kettle, I'll make the tea.' 
Dirge 
Boys and girls that held her dear, 
Do your weeping now; 
All you loved of her lies here. 
Brought to earth the arrogant brow, 
And the withering tongue 
Chastened; do your weeping now. 
Sing whatever songs are sung, 
Wind whatever wreath, 
For a playmate perished young, 
For a spirit spent in death. 
Boys and girls that held her dear, 
All you loved of her lies here. 
Dirge Without Music 
I am not resigned to the shutting away of loving hearts in the hard ground. 
So it is, and so it will be, for so it has been, time out of mind: 
Into the darkness they go, the wise and the lovely. Crowned 
With lilies and with laurel they go; but I am not resigned. 
Lovers and thinkers, into the earth with you. 
Be one with the dull, the indiscriminate dust. 
A fragment of what you felt, of what you knew, 
A formula, a phrase remains,&mdash;but the best is lost. 
The answers quick and keen, the honest look, the laughter, the 
love,&mdash; 
They are gone. They are gone to feed the roses. Elegant and curled 
Is the blossom. Fragrant is the blossom. I know. But I do not 
approve. 
More precious was the light in your eyes than all the roses in the 
world. 
Down, down, down into the darkness of the grave 
Gently they go, the beautiful, the tender, the kind; 
Quietly they go, the intelligent, the witty, the brave. 
I know. But I do not approve. And I am not resigned. 
Doubt No More That Oberon 
Doubt no more that Oberon&mdash; 
Never doubt that Pan 
Lived, and played a reed, and ran 
After nymphs in a dark forest, 
In the merry, credulous days,&mdash; 
Lived, and led a fairy band 
Over the indulgent land! 
Ah, for in this dourest, sorest 
Age man's eye has looked upon, 
Death to fauns and death to fays, 
Still the dog-wood dares to raise&mdash; 
Healthy tree, with trunk and root&mdash; 
Ivory bowls that bear no fruit, 
And the starlings and the jays&mdash; 
Birds that cannot even sing&mdash; 
Dare to come again in spring! 
Ebb 
I know what my heart is like 
Since your love died: 
It is like a hollow ledge 
Holding a little pool 
Left there by the tide, 
A little tepid pool, 
Drying inward from the edge. 
Eel-Grass 
No matter what I say, 
All that I really love 
Is the rain that flattens on the bay, 
And the eel-grass in the cove; 
The jingle-shells that lie and bleach 
At the tide-line, and the trace 
Of higher tides along the beach: 
Nothing in this place. 
Elegy 
Let them bury your big eyes 
In the secret earth securely, 
Your thin fingers, and your fair, 
Soft, indefinite-colored hair,&mdash; 
All of these in some way, surely, 
From the secret earth shall rise; 
Not for these I sit and stare, 
Broken and bereft completely; 
Your young flesh that sat so neatly 
On your little bones will sweetly 
Blossom in the air. 
But your voice,&mdash;never the rushing 
Of a river underground, 
Not the rising of the wind 
In the trees before the rain, 
Not the woodcock's watery call, 
Not the note the white-throat utters, 
Not the feet of children pushing 
Yellow leaves along the gutters 
In the blue and bitter fall, 
Shall content my musing mind 
For the beauty of that sound 
That in no new way at all 
Ever will be heard again. 
Sweetly through the sappy stalk 
Of the vigorous weed, 
Holding all it held before, 
Cherished by the faithful sun, 
On and on eternally 
Shall your altered fluid run, 
Bud and bloom and go to seed; 
But your singing days are done; 
But the music of your talk 
Never shall the chemistry 
Of the secret earth restore. 
All your lovely words are spoken. 
Once the ivory box is broken, 
Beats the golden bird no more. 
Elegy Before Death 
There will be rose and rhododendron 
When you are dead and under ground; 
Still will be heard from white syringas 
Heavy with bees, a sunny sound; 
Still will the tamaracks be raining 
After the rain has ceased, and still 
Will there be robins in the stubble, 
Brown sheep upon the warm green hill. 
Spring will not ail nor autumn falter; 
Nothing will know that you are gone, 
Saving alone some sullen plough-land 
None but yourself sets foot upon; 
Saving the may-weed and the pig-weed 
Nothing will know that you are dead,&mdash; 
These, and perhaps a useless wagon 
Standing beside some tumbled shed. 
Oh, there will pass with your great passing 
Little of beauty not your own,&mdash; 
Only the light from common water, 
Only the grace from simple stone! 
Epitaph 
Heap not on this mound 
Roses that she loved so well: 
Why bewilder her with roses, 
That she cannot see or smell? 
She is happy where she lies 
With the dust upon her eyes. 
Euclid Alone 
Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare. 
Let all who prate of Beauty hold their peace, 
And lay them prone upon the earth and cease 
To ponder on themselves, the while they stare 
At nothing, intricately drawn nowhere 
In shapes of shifting lineage; let geese 
Gabble and hiss, but heroes seek release 
From dusty bondage into luminous air. 
O blinding hour, O holy, terrible day, 
When first the shaft into his vision shone 
Of light anatomized! Euclid alone 
Has looked on Beauty bare. Fortunate they 
Who, though once only and then but far away, 
Have heard her massive sandal set on stone. 
Exiled 
Searching my heart for its true sorrow, 
This is the thing I find to be: 
That I am weary of words and people, 
Sick of the city, wanting the sea; 
Wanting the sticky, salty sweetness 
Of the strong wind and shattered spray; 
Wanting the loud sound and the soft sound 
Of the big surf that breaks all day. 
Always before about my dooryard, 
Marking the reach of the winter sea, 
Rooted in sand and dragging drift-wood, 
Straggled the purple wild sweet-pea; 
Always I climbed the wave at morning, 
Shook the sand from my shoes at night, 
That now am caught beneath great buildings, 
Stricken with noise, confused with light. 
If I could hear the green piles groaning 
Under the windy wooden piers, 
See once again the bobbing barrels, 
And the black sticks that fence the weirs, 
If I could see the weedy mussels 
Crusting the wrecked and rotting hulls, 
Hear once again the hungry crying 
Overhead, of the wheeling gulls, 
Feel once again the shanty straining 
Under the turning of the tide, 
Fear once again the rising freshet, 
Dread the bell in the fog outside,&mdash; 
I should be happy,&mdash;that was happy 
All day long on the coast of Maine! 
I have a need to hold and handle 
Shells and anchors and ships again! 
I should be happy, that am happy 
Never at all since I came here. 
I am too long away from water. 
I have a need of water near. 
Feast 
I drank at every vine. 
The last was like the first. 
I came upon no wine 
So wonderful as thirst. 
I gnawed at every root. 
I ate of every plant. 
I came upon no fruit 
So wonderful as want. 
Feed the grape and bean 
To the vintner and monger: 
I will lie down lean 
With my thirst and my hunger. 
First Fig 
My candle burns at both ends; 
It will not last the night; 
But ah, my foes, and oh, my friends— 
It gives a lovely light. 
Fontaine, Je Ne Boirai Pas De Ton Eau! 
I know I might have lived in such a way 
As to have suffered only pain: 
Loving not man nor dog; 
Not money, even; feeling 
Toothache perhaps, but never more than an hour away 
From skill and novocaine; 
Making no contacts, dealing with life through Agents, drinking 
one cocktail, betting two dollars, wearing raincoats in the 
rain. 
Betrayed at length by no one but the fog 
Whispering to the wing of the plane. 
"Fountain," I have cried to that unbubbling well, "I will not 
drink of thy water!" Yet I thirst 
For a mouthful of&mdash;not to swallow, only to rinse my mouth in 
&mdash;peace. 
And while the eyes of the past condemn, 
The eyes of the present narrow into assignation. And&mdash; 
worst&mdash; 
The young are so old, they are born with their fingers crossed; 
I shall get no help from them. 
God's World 
O world, I cannot hold thee close enough! 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thy winds, thy wide grey skies! 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thy mists that roll and rise! 
Thy woods this autumn day, that ache and sag 
And all but cry with colour! That gaunt crag 
To crush! To lift the lean of that black bluff! 
World, World, I cannot get thee close enough! 
Long have I known a glory in it all, 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But never knew I this; 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Here such a passion is 
As stretcheth me apart, -- Lord, I do fear 
Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year; 
My soul is all but out of me, -- let fall 
No burning leaf; prithee, let no bird call. 
Grown-Up
 Was it for this I uttered prayers, 
And sobbed and cursed and kicked the stairs, 
That now, domestic as a plate, 
I should retire at half-past eight? 
Here Is A Wound That Never Will Heal, I Know 
Here is a wound that never will heal, I know, 
Being wrought not of a dearness and a death, 
But of a love turned ashes and the breath 
Gone out of beauty; never again will grow 
The grass on that scarred acre, though I sow 
Young seed there yearly and the sky bequeath 
Its friendly weathers down, far Underneath 
Shall be such bitterness of an old woe. 
That April should be shattered by a gust, 
That August should be levelled by a rain, 
I can endure, and that the lifted dust 
Of man should settle to the earth again; 
But that a dream can die, will be a thrust 
Between my ribs forever of hot pain. 
Humoresque
 "Heaven bless the babe!" they said. 
"What queer books she must have read!" 
(Love, by whom I was beguiled, 
Grant I may not bear a child.) 
"Little does she guess to-day 
What the world may be!" they say. 
(Snow, drift deep and cover 
Till the spring my murdered lover.) 
I Do But Ask That You Be Always Fair 
I do but ask that you be always fair 
That I forever may continue kind; 
Knowing me what I am, you should not dare 
To lapse from beauty ever, nor seek to bind 
My alterable mood with lesser cords; 
Weeping and such soft matters must invite 
To further vagrancy; and bitter words 
Chafe soon to irremediable flight, 
Wherefore I pray you if you love me dearly, 
Less dear to hold me than your own bright charms, 
Whence it may fall that until death, or nearly, 
I shall not move to struggle from your arms: 
Fade if you must,--I would but bid you be 
Like the sweet year, doing all things graciously. 
I Dreamed I Moved Among The Elysian Fields 
I dreamed I moved among the Elysian fields, 
In converse with sweet women long since dead; 
And out of blossoms which that meadow yields 
I wove a garland for your living head. 
Danai, that was the vessel for a day 
Of golden Jove, I saw, and at her side, 
Whom Jove the Bull desired and bore away, 
Europa stood, and the Swan's featherless bride. 
All these were mortal women, yet all these 
Above the ground had had a god for guest; 
Freely I walked beside them and at ease, 
Addressing them, by them again addressed, 
And marvelled nothing, for remembering you, 
Wherefore I was among them well I knew. 
I Know I Am But Summer To Your Heart 
I know I am but summer to your heart, 
And not the full four seasons of the year; 
And you must welcome from another part 
Such noble moods as are not mine, my dear. 
No gracious weight of golden fruits to sell 
Have I, nor any wise and wintry thing; 
And I have loved you all too long and well 
To carry still the high sweet breast of Spring. 
Wherefore I say: O love, as summer goes, 
I must be gone, steal forth with silent drums, 
That you may hail anew the bird and rose 
When I come back to you, as summer comes. 
Else will you seek, at some not distant time, 
Even your summer in another clime. 
I Know The Face Of Falsehood And Her Tongue 
I know the face of Falsehood and her Tongue 
Honeyed with unction, Plausible with guile, 
Are dear to men, whom count me not among, 
That owe their daily credit to her smile; 
Such have been succoured out of great distress 
By her contriving, if accounts be true: 
Their deference now above the board, I guess, 
Dishcharges what beneath the board is due. 
As for myself, I'd liefer lack her aid 
Than eat her presence; let this building fall: 
But let me never lift my latch, afraid 
To hear her simpering accents in the hall, 
Nor force an entrance past mephitic airs 
Of stale patchoulie hanging on my stairs. 
I Shall Go Back 
I shall go back again to the bleak shore 
And build a little shanty on the sand 
In such a way that the extremest band 
Of brittle seaweed shall escape my door 
But by a yard or two; and nevermore 
Shall I return to take you by the hand. 
I shall be gone to what I understand, 
And happier than I ever was before. 
The love that stood a moment in your eyes, 
The words that lay a moment on your tongue, 
Are one with all that in a moment dies, 
A little under-said and over-sung. 
But I shall find the sullen rocks and skies 
Unchanged from what they were when I was young. 
I will put Chaos into fourteen lines 
I will put Chaos into fourteen lines 
And keep him there; and let him thence escape 
If he be lucky; let him twist, and ape 
Flood, fire, and demon — his adroit designs 
Will strain to nothing in the strict confines 
Of this sweet Order, where, in pious rape, 
I hold his essence and amorphous shape, 
Till he with Order mingles and combines. 
Past are the hours, the years, of our duress, 
His arrogance, our awful servitude: 
I have him. He is nothing more nor less 
Than something simple not yet understood; 
I shall not even force him to confess; 
Or answer. I will only make him good. 
I, Being Born A Woman And Distressed 
I, being born a woman and distressed 
By all the needs and notions of my kind, 
Am urged by your propinquity to find 
Your person fair, and feel a certain zest 
To bear your body's weight upon my breast: 
So subtly is the fume of life designed, 
To clarify the pulse and cloud the mind, 
And leave me once again undone, possessed. 
Think not for this, however, the poor treason 
Of my stout blood against my staggering brain, 
I shall remember you with love, or season 
My scorn wtih pity, -- let me make it plain: 
I find this frenzy insufficient reason 
For conversation when we meet again. 
If I Should Learn, In Some Quite Casual Way 
IF I should learn, in some quite casual way, 
That you were gone, not to return again&mdash; 
Read from the back-page of a paper, say, 
Held by a neighbor in a subway train, 
How at the corner of this avenue 
And such a street (so are the papers filled) 
A hurrying man&mdash;who happened to be you&mdash; 
At noon to-day had happened to be killed, 
I should not cry aloud&mdash;I could not cry 
Aloud, or wring my hands in such a place&mdash; 
I should but watch the station lights rush by 
With a more careful interest on my face, 
Or raise my eyes and read with greater care 
Where to store furs and how to treat the hair. 
If Still Your Orchards Bear 
Brother, that breathe the August air 
Ten thousand years from now, 
And smell&mdash;if still your orchards bear 
Tart apples on the bough&mdash; 
The early windfall under the tree, 
And see the red fruit shine, 
I cannot think your thoughts will be 
Much different from mine. 
Should at that moment the full moon 
Step forth upon the hill, 
And memories hard to bear at noon, 
By moonlight harder still, 
Form in the shadow of the trees, &mdash; 
Things that you could not spare 
And live, or so you thought, yet these 
All gone, and you still there, 
A man no longer what he was, 
Nor yet the thing he'd planned, 
The chilly apple from the grass 
Warmed by your living hand&mdash; 
I think you will have need of tears; 
I think they will not flow; 
Supposing in ten thousand years 
Men ache, as they do now. 
Indifference 
I said,&mdash;for Love was laggard, O, Love was slow to come,&mdash; 
"I'll hear his step and know his step when I am warm in 
bed; 
But I'll never leave my pillow, though there be some 
As would let him in&mdash;and take him in with tears!" I said. 
I lay,&mdash;for Love was laggard, O, he came not until dawn,&mdash; 
I lay and listened for his step and could not get to sleep; 
And he found me at my window with my big cloak on, 
All sorry with the tears some folks might weep! 
Inert Perfection 
"Inert Perfection, let me chip your shell. 
You cannot break it through with that soft beak. 
What if you broke it never, and it befell 
You should not issue thence, should never speak?" 
Perfection in the egg, a fluid thing, 
Grows solid in due course, and there exists; 
Knowing no urge to struggle forth and sing; 
Complete, though shell-bound. But the mind insists 
It shall be hatched ... to this ulterior end: 
That it be bound by Function, that it be 
Less than Perfection, having to expend 
Some force on a nostalgia to be free. 
Inland 
People that build their houses inland, 
People that buy a plot of ground 
Shaped like a house, and build a house there, 
Far from the sea-board, far from the sound 
Of water sucking the hollow ledges, 
Tons of water striking the shore,&mdash; 
What do they long for, as I long for 
One salt smell of the sea once more? 
People the waves have not awakened, 
Spanking the boats at the harbour's head, 
What do they long for, as I long for,&mdash; 
Starting up in my inland bed, 
Beating the narrow walls, and finding 
Neither a window nor a door, 
Screaming to God for death by drowning,&mdash; 
One salt taste of the sea once more? 
Intention To Escape From Him 
I think I will learn some beautiful language, useless for commercial 
Purposes, work hard at that. 
I think I will learn the Latin name of every songbird, not only in 
America but wherever they sing. 
(Shun meditation, though; invite the controversial: 
Is the world flat? Do bats eat cats?) By digging hard I might 
deflect that river, my mind, that uncontrollable thing, 
Turgid and yellow, srong to overflow its banks in spring, 
carrying away bridges 
A bed of pebbles now, through which there trickles one clear 
narrow stream, following a course henceforth nefast&mdash; 
Dig, dig; and if I come to ledges, blast. 
Interim 
The room is full of you!&mdash;As I came in 
And closed the door behind me, all at once 
A something in the air, intangible, 
Yet stiff with meaning, struck my senses sick!&mdash; 
Sharp, unfamiliar odors have destroyed 
Each other room's dear personality. 
The heavy scent of damp, funereal flowers,&mdash; 
The very essence, hush-distilled, of Death&mdash; 
Has strangled that habitual breath of home 
Whose expiration leaves all houses dead; 
And wheresoe'er I look is hideous change. 
Save here. Here 'twas as if a weed-choked gate 
Had opened at my touch, and I had stepped 
Into some long-forgot, enchanted, strange, 
Sweet garden of a thousand years ago 
And suddenly thought, "I have been here before!" 
You are not here. I know that you are gone, 
And will not ever enter here again. 
And yet it seems to me, if I should speak, 
Your silent step must wake across the hall; 
If I should turn my head, that your sweet eyes 
Would kiss me from the door.&mdash;So short a time 
To teach my life its transposition to 
This difficult and unaccustomed key!&mdash; 
The room is as you left it; your last touch&mdash; 
A thoughtless pressure, knowing not itself 
As saintly&mdash;hallows now each simple thing; 
Hallows and glorifies, and glows between 
The dust's grey fingers like a shielded light. 
There is your book, just as you laid it down, 
Face to the table,&mdash;I cannot believe 
That you are gone!&mdash;Just then it seemed to me 
You must be here. I almost laughed to think 
How like reality the dream had been; 
Yet knew before I laughed, and so was still. 
That book, outspread, just as you laid it down! 
Perhaps you thought, "I wonder what comes next, 
And whether this or this will be the end"; 
So rose, and left it, thinking to return. 
Perhaps that chair, when you arose and passed 
Out of the room, rocked silently a while 
Ere it again was still. When you were gone 
Forever from the room, perhaps that chair, 
Stirred by your movement, rocked a little while, 
Silently, to and fro... 
And here are the last words your fingers wrote, 
Scrawled in broad characters across a page 
In this brown book I gave you. Here your hand, 
Guiding your rapid pen, moved up and down. 
Here with a looping knot you crossed a "t," 
And here another like it, just beyond 
These two eccentric "e's." You were so small, 
And wrote so brave a hand! 
How strange it seems 
That of all words these are the words you chose! 
And yet a simple choice; you did not know 
You would not write again. If you had known&mdash; 
But then, it does not matter,&mdash;and indeed 
If you had known there was so little time 
You would have dropped your pen and come to me 
And this page would be empty, and some phrase 
Other than this would hold my wonder now. 
Yet, since you could not know, and it befell 
That these are the last words your fingers wrote, 
There is a dignity some might not see 
In this, "I picked the first sweet-pea to-day." 
To-day! Was there an opening bud beside it 
You left until to-morrow?&mdash;O my love, 
The things that withered,&mdash;and you came not back 
That day you filled this circle of my arms 
That now is empty. (O my empty life!) 
That day&mdash;that day you picked the first sweet-pea,&mdash; 
And brought it in to show me! I recall 
With terrible distinctness how the smell 
Of your cool gardens drifted in with you. 
I know, you held it up for me to see 
And flushed because I looked not at the flower, 
But at your face; and when behind my look 
You saw such unmistakable intent 
You laughed and brushed your flower against my lips. 
(You were the fairest thing God ever made, 
I think.) And then your hands above my heart 
Drew down its stem into a fastening, 
And while your head was bent I kissed your hair. 
I wonder if you knew. (Beloved hands! 
Somehow I cannot seem to see them still. 
Somehow I cannot seem to see the dust 
In your bright hair.) What is the need of Heaven 
When earth can be so sweet?&mdash;If only God 
Had let us love,&mdash;and show the world the way! 
Strange cancellings must ink th' eternal books 
When love-crossed-out will bring the answer right! 
That first sweet-pea! I wonder where it is. 
It seems to me I laid it down somewhere, 
And yet,&mdash;I am not sure. I am not sure, 
Even, if it was white or pink; for then 
'Twas much like any other flower to me 
Save that it was the first. I did not know 
Then, that it was the last. If I had known&mdash; 
But then, it does not matter. Strange how few, 
After all's said and done, the things that are 
Of moment.
 Few indeed! When I can make 
Of ten small words a rope to hang the world! 
"I had you and I have you now no more." 
There, there it dangles,&mdash;where's the little truth 
That can for long keep footing under that 
When its slack syllables tighten to a thought? 
Here, let me write it down! I wish to see 
Just how a thing like that will look on paper! 
"I had you and I have you now no more." 
O little words, how can you run so straight 
Across the page, beneath the weight you bear? 
How can you fall apart, whom such a theme 
Has bound together, and hereafter aid 
In trivial expression, that have been 
So hideously dignified?&mdash;Would God 
That tearing you apart would tear the thread 
I strung you on! Would God&mdash;O God, my mind 
Stretches asunder on this merciless rack 
Of imagery! O, let me sleep a while! 
Would I could sleep, and wake to find me back 
In that sweet summer afternoon with you. 
Summer? Tis summer still by the calendar! 
How easily could God, if He so willed, 
Set back the world a little turn or two! 
Correct its griefs, and bring its joys again! 
We were so wholly one I had not thought 
That we could die apart. I had not thought 
That I could move,&mdash;and you be stiff and still! 
That I could speak,&mdash;and you perforce be dumb! 
I think our heart-strings were, like warp and woof 
In some firm fabric, woven in and out; 
Your golden filaments in fair design 
Across my duller fibre. And to-day 
The shining strip is rent; the exquisite 
Fine pattern is destroyed; part of your heart 
Aches in my breast; part of my heart lies chilled 
In the damp earth with you. I have been tom 
In two, and suffer for the rest of me. 
What is my life to me? And what am I 
To life,&mdash;a ship whose star has guttered out? 
A Fear that in the deep night starts awake 
Perpetually, to find its senses strained 
Against the taut strings of the quivering air, 
Awaiting the return of some dread chord? 
Dark, Dark, is all I find for metaphor; 
All else were contrast,&mdash;save that contrast's wall 
Is down, and all opposed things flow together 
Into a vast monotony, where night 
And day, and frost and thaw, and death and life, 
Are synonyms. What now&mdash;what now to me 
Are all the jabbering birds and foolish flowers 
That clutter up the world? You were my song! 
Now, let discord scream! You were my flower! 
Now let the world grow weeds! For I shall not 
Plant things above your grave&mdash;(the common balm 
Of the conventional woe for its own wound!) 
Amid sensations rendered negative 
By your elimination stands to-day, 
Certain, unmixed, the element of grief; 
I sorrow; and I shall not mock my truth 
With travesties of suffering, nor seek 
To effigy its incorporeal bulk 
In little wry-faced images of woe. 
I cannot call you back; and I desire 
No utterance of my immaterial voice. 
I cannot even turn my face this way 
Or that, and say, "My face is turned to you"; 
I know not where you are, I do not know 
If Heaven hold you or if earth transmute, 
Body and soul, you into earth again; 
But this I know:&mdash;not for one second's space 
Shall I insult my sight with visionings 
Such as the credulous crowd so eager-eyed 
Beholds, self-conjured, in the empty air. 
Let the world wail! Let drip its easy tears! 
My sorrow shall be dumb! 
&mdash;What do I say? 
God! God!&mdash;God pity me! Am I gone mad 
That I should spit upon a rosary? 
Am I become so shrunken? Would to God 
I too might feel that frenzied faith whose touch 
Makes temporal the most enduring grief; 
Though it must walk a while, as is its wont, 
With wild lamenting! Would I too might weep 
Where weeps the world and hangs its piteous wreaths 
For its new dead! Not Truth, but Faith, it is 
That keeps the world alive. If all at once 
Faith were to slacken,&mdash;that unconscious faith 
Which must, I know, yet be the corner-stone 
Of all believing,&mdash;birds now flying fearless 
Across would drop in terror to the earth; 
Fishes would drown; and the all-governing reins 
Would tangle in the frantic hands of God 
And the worlds gallop headlong to destruction! 
O God, I see it now, and my sick brain 
Staggers and swoons! How often over me 
Flashes this breathlessness of sudden sight 
In which I see the universe unrolled 
Before me like a scroll and read thereon 
Chaos and Doom, where helpless planets whirl 
Dizzily round and round and round and round, 
Like tops across a table, gathering speed 
With every spin, to waver on the edge 
One instant&mdash;looking over&mdash;and the next 
To shudder and lurch forward out of sight&mdash;
 * * * * * * * 
Ah, I am worn out&mdash;I am wearied out&mdash; 
It is too much&mdash;I am but flesh and blood, 
And I must sleep. Though you were dead again, 
I am but flesh and blood and I must sleep. 
Invocation To The Muses 
Read by the poet at The Public Ceremonial of The Naional Institute 
of Arts and Letters at Carnegie Hall, New York, January 18th, 1941. 
Great Muse, that from this hall absent for long 
Hast never been, 
Great Muse of Song, 
Colossal Muse of mighty Melody, 
Vocal Calliope, 
With thine august and contrapuntal brow 
And thy vast throat builded for Harmony, 
For the strict monumental pure design, 
And the melodic line: 
Be thou tonight with all beneath these rafters&mdash;be with me. 
If I address thee in archaic style&mdash; 
Words obsolete, words obsolescent, 
It is that for a little while 
The heart must, oh indeed must from this angry and out-rageous present 
Itself withdraw 
Into some past in which most crooked Evil, 
Although quite certainly conceived and born, was not as yet the Law. 
Archaic, or obsolescent at the least, 
Be thy grave speaking and the careful words of thy clear song, 
For the time wrongs us, and the words most common to our speech today 
Salute and welcome to the feast 
Conspicuous Evil&mdash; or against him all day long 
Cry out, telling of ugly deeds and most uncommon wrong. 
Be thou tonight with all beneath these rafters&mdash;be with me 
But oh, be more with those who are not free. 
Who, herded into prison camps all shame must suffer and all outrage see. 
Where music is not played nor sung, 
Though the great voice be there, no sound from the dry throat across the 
thickened tongue 
Comes forth; nor has he heart for it. 
Beauty in all things&mdash;no, we cannot hope for that; but some place set 
apart for it. 
Here it may dwell; 
And with your aid, Melpomene 
And all thy sister-muses (for ye are, I think, daughters of Memory) 
Within the tortured mind as well. 
Reaped are those fields with dragon's-teeth so lately sown; 
Many the heaped men dying there - so close, hip touches thigh; yet each man 
dies alone. 
Music, what overtone 
For the soft ultimate sigh or the unheeded groan 
Hast thou&mdash;to make death decent, where men slip 
Down blood to death, no service of grieved heart or ritual lip 
Transferring what was recently a man and still is warm&mdash; 
Transferring his obedient limbs into the shallow grave where not again a friend 
shall greet him, 
Nor hatred do him harm . . . 
Nor true love run to meet him? 
In the last hours of him who lies untended 
On a cold field at night, and sees the hard bright stars 
Above his upturned face, and says aloud "How strange . . . my life is 
ended."&mdash; 
If in the past he loved great music much, and knew it well, 
Let not his lapsing mind be teased by well-beloved but ill- remembered bars 
&mdash; 
Let the full symphony across the blood-soaked field 
By him be heard, most pure in every part, 
The lonely horror of whose painful death is thus repealed, 
Who dies with quiet tears upon his upturned face, making to glow with softness 
the hard stars. 
And bring to those who knew great poetry well 
Page after page that they have loved but have not learned by heart! 
We who in comfort to well-lighted shelves 
Can turn for all the poets ever wrote, 
Beseech you: Bear to those 
Who love high art no less than we ourselves, 
Those who lie wounded, those who in prison cast 
Strive to recall, to ease them, some great ode, and every stanza save the last. 
Recall&mdash;oh, in the dark, restore them 
The unremembered lines; make bright the page before them! 
Page after page present to these, 
In prison concentrated, watched by barbs of bayonet and wire, 
Give ye to them their hearts' intense desire&mdash; 
The words of Shelley, Virgil, Sophocles. 
And thou, O lovely and not sad, 
Euterpe, be thou in this hall tonight! 
Bid us remember all we ever had 
Of sweet and gay delight&mdash; 
We who are free, 
But cannot quite be glad, 
Thinking of huge, abrupt disaster brought 
Upon so many of our kind 
Who treasure as do we the vivid look on the unfrightened face, 
The careless happy stride from place to place, 
And the unbounded regions of untrammelled thought 
Open as interstellar space 
To the exploring and excited mind. 
O Muses, O immortal Nine!&mdash; 
Or do ye languish? Can ye die? 
Must all go under?&mdash; 
How shall we heal without your help a world 
By these wild horses torn asunder? 
How shall we build anew? &mdash; How start again? 
How cure, how even moderate this pain 
Without you, and you strong? 
And if ye sleep, then waken! 
And if ye sicken and do plan to die, 
Do not that now! 
Hear us, in what sharp need we cry! 
For we have help nowhere 
If not in you! 
Pity can much, and so a mighty mind, but cannot all things do!&mdash; 
By you forsaken, 
We shall be scattered, we shall be overtaken! 
Oh, come! Renew in us the ancient wonder, 
The grace of life, its courage, and its joy! 
Weave us those garlands nothing can destroy! 
Come! with your radiant eyes! &mdash; with your throats of thunder! 
Journey 
Ah, could I lay me down in this long grass 
And close my eyes, and let the quiet wind 
Blow over me&mdash;I am so tired, so tired 
Of passing pleasant places! All my life, 
Following Care along the dusty road, 
Have I looked back at loveliness and sighed; 
Yet at my hand an unrelenting hand 
Tugged ever, and I passed. All my life long 
Over my shoulder have I looked at peace; 
And now I fain would lie in this long grass 
And close my eyes.
 Yet onward!
 Cat birds call 
Through the long afternoon, and creeks at dusk 
Are guttural. Whip-poor-wills wake and cry, 
Drawing the twilight close about their throats. 
Only my heart makes answer. Eager vines 
Go up the rocks and wait; flushed apple-trees 
Pause in their dance and break the ring for me; 
And bayberry, that through sweet bevies thread 
Of round-faced roses, pink and petulant, 
Look back and beckon ere they disappear. 
Only my heart, only my heart responds. 
Yet, ah, my path is sweet on either side 
All through the dragging day,&mdash;sharp underfoot 
And hot, and like dead mist the dry dust hangs&mdash; 
But far, oh, far as passionate eye can reach, 
And long, ah, long as rapturous eye can cling, 
The world is mine: blue hill, still silver lake, 
Broad field, bright flower, and the long white road 
A gateless garden, and an open path: 
My feet to follow, and my heart to hold. 
Justice Denied In Massachusetts 
Let us abandon then our gardens and go home 
And sit in the sitting-room 
Shall the larkspur blossom or the corn grow under this cloud? 
Sour to the fruitful seed 
Is the cold earth under this cloud, 
Fostering quack and weed, we have marched upon but cannot 
conquer; 
We have bent the blades of our hoes against the stalks of them. 
Let us go home, and sit in the sitting room. 
Not in our day 
Shall the cloud go over and the sun rise as before, 
Beneficent upon us 
Out of the glittering bay, 
And the warm winds be blown inward from the sea 
Moving the blades of corn 
With a peaceful sound. 
Forlorn, forlorn, 
Stands the blue hay-rack by the empty mow. 
And the petals drop to the ground, 
Leaving the tree unfruited. 
The sun that warmed our stooping backs and withered the weed 
uprooted&mdash; 
We shall not feel it again. 
We shall die in darkness, and be buried in the rain. 
What from the splendid dead 
We have inherited &mdash; 
Furrows sweet to the grain, and the weed subdued &mdash; 
See now the slug and the mildew plunder. 
Evil does overwhelm 
The larkspur and the corn; 
We have seen them go under. 
Let us sit here, sit still, 
Here in the sitting-room until we die; 
At the step of Death on the walk, rise and go; 
Leaving to our children's children the beautiful doorway, 
And this elm, 
And a blighted earth to till 
With a broken hoe. 
Kin To Sorrow 
Am I kin to Sorrow, 
That so oft 
Falls the knocker of my door&mdash;&mdash;
 Neither loud nor soft, 
But as long accustomed, 
Under Sorrow's hand? 
Marigolds around the step 
And rosemary stand, 
And then comes Sorrow&mdash; 
And what does Sorrow care 
For the rosemary 
Or the marigolds there? 
Am I kin to Sorrow? 
Are we kin? 
That so oft upon my door&mdash; 
Oh, come in! 
Lament 
Listen, children: 
Your father is dead. 
From his old coats 
I'll make you little jackets; 
I'll make you little trousers 
From his old pants. 
There'll be in his pockets 
Things he used to put there, 
Keys and pennies 
Covered with tobacco; 
Dan shall have the pennies 
To save in his bank; 
Anne shall have the keys 
To make a pretty noise with. 
Life must go on, 
And the dead be forgotten; 
Life must go on, 
Though good men die; 
Anne, eat your breakfast; 
Dan, take your medicine; 
Life must go on; 
I forget just why. 
Lines For A Grave-Stone 
Man alive, that mournst thy lot, 
Desiring what thou hast not got, 
Money, beauty, love, what not; 
Deeming it blesseder to be 
A rotted man, than live to see 
So rude a sky as covers thee; 
Deeming thyself of all unblest 
And wretched souls the wretchedest, 
Longing to die and be at rest; 
Know: that however grim the fate 
Which sent thee forth to meditate 
Upon my enviable state, 
Here lieth one who would resign 
Gladly his lot, to shoulder thine. 
Give me thy coat; get into mine. 
Lines Written In Recapitulation 
I could not bring this splendid world nor any trading beast 
In charge of it, to defer, no, not to give ear, not in the least 
Appearance, to my handsome prophecies, 
which here I ponder and put by. 
I am left simpler, less encumbered, by the consciousness 
that I shall by no pebble in my dirty sling 
avail To slay one purple giant four feet high and distribute arms 
among his tall attendants, who spit at his name 
when spitting on the ground: 
They will be found one day Prone where they fell, or dead sitting 
&mdash;and pock-marked wall 
Supporting the beautiful back straight as an oak 
before it is old. 
I have learned to fail. And I have had my say. 
Yet shall I sing until my voice crack 
(this being my leisure, this my holiday) 
That man was a special thing, and no commodity, 
a thing improper to be sold. 
Love Is Not All 
Love is not all: it is not meat nor drink 
Nor slumber nor a roof against the rain; 
Nor yet a floating spar to men that sink 
And rise and sink and rise and sink again; 
Love can not fill the thickened lung with breath, 
Nor clean the blood, nor set the fractured bone; 
Yet many a man is making friends with death 
Even as I speak, for lack of love alone. 
It well may be that in a difficult hour, 
Pinned down by pain and moaning for release, 
Or nagged by want past resolution's power, 
I might be driven to sell your love for peace, 
Or trade the memory of this night for food. 
It well may be. I do not think I would. 
Low-Tide 
These wet rocks where the tide has been, 
Barnacled white and weeded brown 
And slimed beneath to a beautiful green, 
These wet rocks where the tide went down 
Will show again when the tide is high 
Faint and perilous, far from shore, 
No place to dream, but a place to die,&mdash; 
The bottom of the sea once more. 
There was a child that wandered through 
A giant's empty house all day,&mdash; 
House full of wonderful things and new, 
But no fit place for a child to play. 
Make Bright The Arrows 
Make bright the arrows 
Gather the shields: 
Conquest narrows 
The peaceful fields. 
Stock well the quiver 
With arrows bright: 
The bowman feared 
Need never fight. 
Make bright the arrows, 
O peaceful and wise! 
Gather the shields 
Against surprise. 
Mariposa 
Butterflies are white and blue 
In this field we wander through. 
Suffer me to take your hand. 
Death comes in a day or two. 
All the things we ever knew 
Will be ashes in that hour, 
Mark the transient butterfly, 
How he hangs upon the flower. 
Suffer me to take your hand. 
Suffer me to cherish you 
Till the dawn is in the sky. 
Whether I be false or true, 
Death comes in a day or two. 
Memorial To D.C. 
(Vassar College, 1918) 
O, loveliest throat of all sweet throats, 
Where now no more the music is, 
With hands that wrote you little notes 
I write you little elegies! 
Menses 
(He speaks, but to himself, being aware how it is with her) 
Think not I have not heard. 
Well-fanged the double word 
And well-directed flew. 
I felt it. Down my side 
Innocent as oil I see the ugly venom slide: 
Poison enough to stiffen us both, and all our friends; 
But I am not pierced, so there the mischief ends. 
There is more to be said: I see it coiling; 
The impact will be pain. 
Yet coil; yet strike again. 
You cannot riddle the stout mail I wove 
Long since, of wit and love. 
As for my answer . . . stupid in the sun 
He lies, his fangs drawn: 
I will not war with you. 
You know how wild you are. You are willing to be turned 
To other matters; you would be grateful, even. 
You watch me shyly. I (for I have learned 
More things than one in our few years together) 
Chafe at the churlish wind, the unseasonable weather. 
"Unseasonable?" you cry, with harsher scorn 
Than the theme warrants; "Every year it is the same! 
'Unseasonable!' they whine, these stupid peasants!&mdash;and never 
since they were born 
Have they known a spring less wintry! Lord, the shame, 
The crying shame of seeing a man no wiser than the beasts he 
feeds&mdash; 
His skull as empty as a shell!" 
("Go to. You are unwell.") 
Such is my thought, but such are not my words. 
"What is the name," I ask, "of those big birds 
With yellow breast and low and heavy flight, 
That make such mournful whistling?"
 "Meadowlarks," 
You answer primly, not a little cheered. 
"Some people shoot them." Suddenly your eyes are wet 
And your chin trembles. On my breast you lean, 
And sob most pitifullly for all the lovely things that are not and 
have been. 
"How silly I am!&mdash;and I know how silly I am!" 
You say; "You are very patient. You are very kind. 
I shall be better soon. Just Heaven consign and damn 
To tedious Hell this body with its muddy feet in my mind!" 
Midnight Oil 
Cut if you will, with Sleep's dull knife, 
Each day to half its length, my friend,&mdash; 
The years that Time take off my life, 
He'll take from off the other end! 
Mist In The Valley 
These hills, to hurt me more, 
That am hurt already enough,&mdash; 
Having left the sea behind, 
Having turned suddenly and left the shore 
That I had loved beyond all words, even a song's words, to 
convey, 
And built me a house on upland acres, 
Sweet with the pinxter, bright and rough 
With the rusty blackbird long before the winter's done, 
But smelling never of bayberry hot in the sun, 
Nor ever loud with the pounding of the long white breakers,&mdash; 
These hills, beneath the October moon, 
Sit in the valley white with mist 
Like islands in a quiet bay, 
Jut out from shore into the mist, 
Wooded with poplar dark as pine, 
Like points of land into a quiet bay. 
(Just in the way 
The harbour met the bay) 
Stricken too sore for tears, 
I stand, remembering the Islands and the sea's lost sound&mdash; 
Life at its best no longer than the sand-peep's cry, 
And I two years, two years, 
Tilling an upland ground! 
Modern Declaration 
I, having loved ever since I was a child a few things, never having 
wavered 
In these affections; never through shyness in the houses of the 
rich or in the presence of clergymen having denied these 
loves; 
Never when worked upon by cynics like chiropractors having 
grunted or clicked a vertebra to the discredit of those loves; 
Never when anxious to land a job having diminished them by a 
conniving smile; or when befuddled by drink 
Jeered at them through heartache or lazily fondled the fingers of 
their alert enemies; declare 
That I shall love you always. 
No matter what party is in power; 
No matter what temporarily expedient combination of allied 
interests wins the war; 
Shall love you always. 
My Most Distinguished Guest And Learned Friend 
My most Distinguished Guest and Learned Friend, 
The pallid hare that runs before the day 
Having brought your earnest counsels to an end 
Now have I somewhat of my own to say: 
That it is folly to be sunk in love, 
And madness plain to make the matter known, 
There are no mysteries you are verger of; 
Everyman's wisdoms these are, and my own. 
If I have flung my heart unto a hound 
I have done ill, it is a certain thing; 
Yet breathe I freer, walk I the more sound 
On my sick bones for this brave reasoning? 
Soon must I say, " 'Tis prowling Death I hear!" 
Yet come no better off, for my quick ear. 
Night Is My Sister, And How Deep In Love 
Night is my sister, and how deep in love, 
How drowned in love and weedily washed ashore, 
There to be fretted by the drag and shove 
At the tide's edge, I lie&mdash;these things and more: 
Whose arm alone between me and the sand, 
Whose voice alone, whose pitiful breath brought near, 
Could thaw these nostrils and unlock this hand, 
She could advise you, should you care to hear. 
Small chance, however, in a storm so black, 
A man will leave his friendly fire and snug 
For a drowned woman's sake, and bring her back 
To drip and scatter shells upon the rug. 
No one but Night, with tears on her dark face, 
Watches beside me in this windy place. 
No Rose That In A Garden Ever Grew 
No rose that in a garden ever grew, 
In Homer's or in Omar's or in mine, 
Though buried under centuries of fine 
Dead dust of roses, shut from sun and dew 
Forever, and forever lost from view, 
But must again in fragrance rich as wine 
The grey aisles of the air incarnadine 
When the old summers surge into a new. 
Thus when I swear, "I love with all my heart," 
'Tis with the heart of Lilith that I swear, 
'Tis with the love of Lesbia and Lucrece; 
And thus as well my love must lose some part 
Of what it is, had Helen been less fair, 
Or perished young, or stayed at home in Greece. 
Not Even My Pride Shall Suffer Much 
Not even my pride shall suffer much; 
Not even my pride at all, maybe, 
If this ill-timed, intemperate clutch 
Be loosed by you and not by me, 
Will suffer; I have been so true 
A vestal to that only pride 
Wet wood cannot extinguish, nor 
Sand, nor its embers scattered, for, 
See all these years, it has not died. 
And if indeed, as I dare think, 
You cannot push this patient flame, 
By any breath your lungs could store, 
Even for a moment to the floor 
To crawl there, even for a moment crawl, 
What can you mix for me to drink 
That shall deflect me? What you do 
Is either malice, crude defense 
Of ego, or indifference: 
I know these things as well as you; 
You do not dazzle me at all&mdash; 
Some love, and some simplicity, 
Might well have been the death of me&mdash; 
Not In A Silver Casket Cool With Pearls 
Not in a silver casket cool with pearls 
Or rich with red corundum or with blue, 
Locked, and the key withheld, as other girls 
Have given their loves, I give my love to you; 
Not in a lovers'-knot, not in a ring 
Worked in such fashion, and the legend plain&mdash; 
Semper fidelis, where a secret spring 
Kennels a drop of mischief for the brain: 
Love in the open hand, no thing but that, 
Ungemmed, unhidden, wishing not to hurt, 
As one should bring you cowslips in a hat 
Swung from the hand, or apples in her skirt, 
I bring you, calling out as children do: 
"Look what I have!&mdash;And these are all for you." 
Ode To Silence 
Aye, but she? 
Your other sister and my other soul 
Grave Silence, lovelier 
Than the three loveliest maidens, what of her? 
Clio, not you, 
Not you, Calliope, 
Nor all your wanton line, 
Not Beauty's perfect self shall comfort me 
For Silence once departed, 
For her the cool-tongued, her the tranquil-hearted, 
Whom evermore I follow wistfully, 
Wandering Heaven and Earth and Hell and the four seasons through; 
Thalia, not you, 
Not you, Melpomene, 
Not your incomparable feet, O thin Terpsichore, I seek in this great hall, 
But one more pale, more pensive, most beloved of you all. 
I seek her from afar, 
I come from temples where her altars are, 
From groves that bear her name, 
Noisy with stricken victims now and sacrificial flame, 
And cymbals struck on high and strident faces 
Obstreperous in her praise 
They neither love nor know, 
A goddess of gone days, 
Departed long ago, 
Abandoning the invaded shrines and fanes 
Of her old sanctuary, 
A deity obscure and legendary, 
Of whom there now remains, 
For sages to decipher and priests to garble, 
Only and for a little while her letters wedged in marble, 
Which even now, behold, the friendly mumbling rain erases, 
And the inarticulate snow, 
Leaving at last of her least signs and traces 
None whatsoever, nor whither she is vanished from these places. 
"She will love well," I said, 
"If love be of that heart inhabiter, 
The flowers of the dead; 
The red anemone that with no sound 
Moves in the wind, and from another wound 
That sprang, the heavily-sweet blue hyacinth, 
That blossoms underground, 
And sallow poppies, will be dear to her. 
And will not Silence know 
In the black shade of what obsidian steep 
Stiffens the white narcissus numb with sleep? 
(Seed which Demeter's daughter bore from home, 
Uptorn by desperate fingers long ago, 
Reluctant even as she, 
Undone Persephone, 
And even as she set out again to grow 
In twilight, in perdition's lean and inauspicious loam). 
She will love well," I said, 
"The flowers of the dead; 
Where dark Persephone the winter round, 
Uncomforted for home, uncomforted, 
Lacking a sunny southern slope in northern Sicily, 
With sullen pupils focussed on a dream, 
Stares on the stagnant stream 
That moats the unequivocable battlements of Hell, 
There, there will she be found, 
She that is Beauty veiled from men and Music in a swound." 
"I long for Silence as they long for breath 
Whose helpless nostrils drink the bitter sea; 
What thing can be 
So stout, what so redoubtable, in Death 
What fury, what considerable rage, if only she, 
Upon whose icy breast, 
Unquestioned, uncaressed, 
One time I lay, 
And whom always I lack, 
Even to this day, 
Being by no means from that frigid bosom weaned away, 
If only she therewith be given me back?" 
I sought her down that dolorous labyrinth, 
Wherein no shaft of sunlight ever fell, 
And in among the bloodless everywhere 
I sought her, but the air, 
Breathed many times and spent, 
Was fretful with a whispering discontent, 
And questioning me, importuning me to tell 
Some slightest tidings of the light of day they know no more, 
Plucking my sleeve, the eager shades were with me where I went. 
I paused at every grievous door, 
And harked a moment, holding up my hand,&mdash;and for a space 
A hush was on them, while they watched my face; 
And then they fell a-whispering as before; 
So that I smiled at them and left them, seeing she was not there. 
I sought her, too, 
Among the upper gods, although I knew 
She was not like to be where feasting is, 
Nor near to Heaven's lord, 
Being a thing abhorred 
And shunned of him, although a child of his, 
(Not yours, not yours; to you she owes not breath, 
Mother of Song, being sown of Zeus upon a dream of Death). 
Fearing to pass unvisited some place 
And later learn, too late, how all the while, 
With her still face, 
She had been standing there and seen me pass, without a smile, 
I sought her even to the sagging board whereat 
The stout immortals sat; 
But such a laughter shook the mighty hall 
No one could hear me say: 
Had she been seen upon the Hill that day? 
And no one knew at all 
How long I stood, or when at last I sighed and went away. 
There is a garden lying in a lull 
Between the mountains and the mountainous sea, 
I know not where, but which a dream diurnal 
Paints on my lids a moment till the hull 
Be lifted from the kernel 
And Slumber fed to me. 
Your foot-print is not there, Mnemosene, 
Though it would seem a ruined place and after 
Your lichenous heart, being full 
Of broken columns, caryatides 
Thrown to the earth and fallen forward on their jointless knees, 
And urns funereal altered into dust 
Minuter than the ashes of the dead, 
And Psyche's lamp out of the earth up-thrust, 
Dripping itself in marble wax on what was once the bed 
Of Love, and his young body asleep, but now is dust instead. 
There twists the bitter-sweet, the white wisteria Fastens its fingers in the 
strangling wall, 
And the wide crannies quicken with bright weeds; 
There dumbly like a worm all day the still white orchid feeds; 
But never an echo of your daughters' laughter 
Is there, nor any sign of you at all 
Swells fungous from the rotten bough, grey mother of Pieria! 
Only her shadow once upon a stone 
I saw,&mdash;and, lo, the shadow and the garden, too, were gone. 
I tell you you have done her body an ill, 
You chatterers, you noisy crew! 
She is not anywhere! 
I sought her in deep Hell; 
And through the world as well; 
I thought of Heaven and I sought her there; 
Above nor under ground 
Is Silence to be found, 
That was the very warp and woof of you, 
Lovely before your songs began and after they were through! 
Oh, say if on this hill 
Somewhere your sister's body lies in death, 
So I may follow there, and make a wreath 
Of my locked hands, that on her quiet breast 
Shall lie till age has withered them!
 (Ah, sweetly from the rest 
I see 
Turn and consider me 
Compassionate Euterpe!) 
"There is a gate beyond the gate of Death, 
Beyond the gate of everlasting Life, 
Beyond the gates of Heaven and Hell," she saith, 
"Whereon but to believe is horror! 
Whereon to meditate engendereth 
Even in deathless spirits such as I 
A tumult in the breath, 
A chilling of the inexhaustible blood 
Even in my veins that never will be dry, 
And in the austere, divine monotony 
That is my being, the madness of an unaccustomed mood. 
This is her province whom you lack and seek; 
And seek her not elsewhere. 
Hell is a thoroughfare 
For pilgrims,&mdash;Herakles, 
And he that loved Euridice too well, 
Have walked therein; and many more than these; 
And witnessed the desire and the despair 
Of souls that passed reluctantly and sicken for the air; 
You, too, have entered Hell, 
And issued thence; but thence whereof I speak 
None has returned;&mdash;for thither fury brings 
Only the driven ghosts of them that flee before all things. 
Oblivion is the name of this abode: and she is there." 
Oh, radiant Song! Oh, gracious Memory! 
Be long upon this height 
I shall not climb again! 
I know the way you mean,&mdash;the little night, 
And the long empty day,&mdash;never to see 
Again the angry light, 
Or hear the hungry noises cry my brain! 
Ah, but she, 
Your other sister and my other soul, 
She shall again be mine; 
And I shall drink her from a silver bowl, 
A chilly thin green wine, 
Not bitter to the taste, 
Not sweet, 
Not of your press, oh, restless, clamorous nine,&mdash; 
To foam beneath the frantic hoofs of mirth&mdash; 
But savoring faintly of the acid earth, 
And trod by pensive feet 
From perfect clusters ripened without haste 
Out of the urgent heat 
In some clear glimmering vaulted twilight under the odorous vine 
. Lift up your lyres! Sing on! 
But as for me, I seek your sister whither she is gone. 
Oh, My Belovèd, Have You Thought Of This 
Oh, my belovèd, have you thought of this: 
How in the years to come unscrupulous Time, 
More cruel than Death, will tear you from my kiss, 
And make you old, and leave me in my prime? 
How you and I, who scale together yet 
A little while the sweet, immortal height 
No pilgrim may remember or forget, 
As sure as the world turns, some granite night 
Shall lie awake and know the gracious flame 
Gone out forever on the mutual stone; 
And call to mind that on the day you came 
I was a child, and you a hero grown ? 
And the night pass, and the strange morning break 
Upon our anguish for each other's sake ! 
Oh, Oh, You Will Be Sorry 
Oh, oh, you will be sorry for that word! 
Give me back my book and take my kiss instead. 
Was it my enemy or my friend I heard, 
"What a big book for such a little head!" 
Come, I will show you now my newest hat, 
And you may watch me purse my mouth and prink! 
Oh, I shall love you still, and all of that. 
I never again shall tell you what I think. 
I shall be sweet and crafty, soft and sly; 
You will not catch me reading any more: 
I shall be called a wife to pattern by; 
And some day when you knock and push the door, 
Some sane day, not too bright and not too stormy, 
I shall be gone, and you may whistle for me. 
Only Until This Cigarette Is Ended 
Only until this cigarette is ended, 
A little moment at the end of all, 
While on the floor the quiet ashes fall, 
And in the firelight to a lance extended, 
Bizarrely with the jazzing music blended, 
The broken shadow dances on the wall, 
I will permit my memory to recall 
The vision of you, by all my dreams attended. 
And then adieu,--farewell!--the dream is done. 
Yours is a face of which I can forget 
The colour and the features, every one, 
The words not ever, and the smiles not yet; 
But in your day this moment is the sun 
Upon a hill, after the sun has set. 
Passer Mortuus Est 
Death devours all lovely things; 
Lesbia with her sparrow 
Shares the darkness,&mdash;presently 
Every bed is narrow. 
Unremembered as old rain 
Dries the sheer libation, 
And the little petulant hand 
Is an annotation. 
After all, my erstwhile dear, 
My no longer cherished, 
Need we say it was not love, 
Now that love is perished? 
Pastoral 
If it were only still!&mdash; 
With far away the shrill 
Crying of a cock; 
Or the shaken bell 
From a cow's throat 
Moving through the bushes; 
Or the soft shock 
Of wizened apples falling 
From an old tree 
In a forgotten orchard 
Upon the hilly rock! 
Oh, grey hill, 
Where the grazing herd 
Licks the purple blossom, 
Crops the spiky weed! 
Oh, stony pasture, 
Where the tall mullein 
Stands up so sturdy 
On its little seed! 
Pity Me Not Because The Light Of Day 
Pity me not because the light of day 
At close of day no longer walks the sky; 
Pity me not for beauties passed away 
From field and thicket as the the year goes by; 
Pity me not the waning of the moon, 
Nor that the ebbing tide goes out to sea, 
Nor that a man's desire is hushed so soon, 
And you no longer look with love on me. 
This have I known always: Love is no more 
Than the wide blossom which the wind assails, 
Than the great tide that treads the shifting shore, 
Strewing fresh wreckage gathered in the gales: 
Pity me that the heart is slow to learn 
What the swift mind beholds at ever turn. 
Portrait By A Neighbour 
Before she has her floor swept 
Or her dishes done, 
Any day you'll find her 
A-sunning in the sun! 
It's long after midnight 
Her key's in the lock, 
And you never see her chimney smoke 
Til past ten o'clock! 
She digs in her garden 
With a shovel and a spoon, 
She weeds her lazy lettuce 
By the light of the moon, 
She walks up the walk 
Like a woman in a dream, 
She forgets she borrowed butter 
Any pays you back in cream! 
Her lawn looks like a meadow, 
And if she mows the place 
She leaves the clover standing 
And the Queen Anne's lace! 
Prayer To Persephone 
Be to her, Persephone, 
All the things I might not be: 
Take her head upon your knee. 
She that was so proud and wild, 
Flippant, arrogant and free, 
She that had no need of me, 
Is a little lonely child 
Lost in Hell,&mdash;Persephone, 
Take her head upon your knee: 
Say to her, "My dear, my dear, 
It is not so dreadful here." 
Recuerdo
 We were very tired, we were very merry -We 
had gone back and forth all night upon the ferry. 
It was bare and bright, and smelled like a stable -But 
we looked into a fire, we leaned across a table, 
We lay on the hill-top underneath the moon; 
And the whistles kept blowing, and the dawn came soon. 
We were very tired, we were very merry -We 
had gone back and forth all night on the ferry; 
And you ate an apple, and I ate a pear,
 From a dozen of each we had bought somewhere; 
And the sky went wan, and the wind came cold, 
And the sun rose dripping, a bucketful of gold. 
We were very tired, we were very merry, 
We had gone back and forth all night on the ferry. 
We hailed, "Good morrow, mother!" to a shawl-covered head, 
And bought a morning paper, which neither of us read; 
And she wept, "God bless you!" for the apples and the pears, 
And we gave her all our money but our subway fares. 
Renascence 
All I could see from where I stood 
Was three long mountains and a wood; 
I turned and looked another way, 
And saw three islands in a bay. 
So with my eyes I traced the line 
Of the horizon, thin and fine, 
Straight around till I was come 
Back to where I'd started from; 
And all I saw from where I stood 
Was three long mountains and a wood. 
Over these things I could not see; 
These were the things that bounded me; 
And I could touch them with my hand, 
Almost, I thought, from where I stand. 
And all at once things seemed so small 
My breath came short, and scarce at all. 
But, sure, the sky is big, I said; 
Miles and miles above my head; 
So here upon my back I'll lie 
And look my fill into the sky. 
And so I looked, and, after all, 
The sky was not so very tall. 
The sky, I said, must somewhere stop, 
And -- sure enough! -- I see the top! 
The sky, I thought, is not so grand; 
I 'most could touch it with my hand! 
And, reaching up my hand to try, 
I screamed to feel it touch the sky. 
I screamed, and -- lo! -- Infinity 
Came down and settled over me; 
And, pressing of the Undefined 
The definition on my mind, 
Held up before my eyes a glass 
Through which my shrinking sight did pass 
Until it seemed I must behold 
Immensity made manifold; 
Whispered to me a word whose sound 
Deafened the air for worlds around, 
And brought unmuffled to my ears 
The gossiping of friendly spheres, 
The creaking of the tented sky, 
The ticking of Eternity. 
I saw and heard, and knew at last 
The How and Why of all things, past, 
And present, and forevermore. 
The universe, cleft to the core, 
Lay open to my probing sense 
That, sick'ning, I would fain pluck thence 
But could not, -- nay! But needs must suck 
At the great wound, and could not pluck 
My lips away till I had drawn 
All venom out. -- Ah, fearful pawn! 
For my omniscience paid I toll 
In infinite remorse of soul. 
All sin was of my sinning, all 
Atoning mine, and mine the gall 
Of all regret. Mine was the weight 
Of every brooded wrong, the hate 
That stood behind each envious thrust, 
Mine every greed, mine every lust. 
And all the while for every grief, 
Each suffering, I craved relief 
With individual desire, -Craved 
all in vain! And felt fierce fire 
About a thousand people crawl; 
Perished with each, -- then mourned for all! 
A man was starving in Capri; 
He moved his eyes and looked at me; 
I felt his gaze, I heard his moan, 
And knew his hunger as my own. 
I saw at sea a great fog-bank 
Between two ships that struck and sank; 
A thousand screams the heavens smote; 
And every scream tore through my throat. 
No hurt I did not feel, no death 
That was not mine; mine each last breath 
That, crying, met an answering cry 
From the compassion that was I. 
All suffering mine, and mine its rod; 
Mine, pity like the pity of God. 
Ah, awful weight! Infinity 
Pressed down upon the finite Me! 
My anguished spirit, like a bird, 
Beating against my lips I heard; 
Yet lay the weight so close about 
There was no room for it without. 
And so beneath the Weight lay I 
And suffered death, but could not die. 
Long had I lain thus, craving death, 
When quietly the earth beneath 
Gave way, and inch by inch, so great 
At last had grown the crushing weight, 
Into the earth I sank till I 
Full six feet under ground did lie, 
And sank no more, -- there is no weight 
Can follow here, however great. 
From off my breast I felt it roll, 
And as it went my tortured soul 
Burst forth and fled in such a gust 
That all about me swirled the dust. 
Deep in the earth I rested now; 
Cool is its hand upon the brow 
And soft its breast beneath the head 
Of one who is so gladly dead. 
And all at once, and over all, 
The pitying rain began to fall; 
I lay and heard each pattering hoof 
Upon my lowly, thatched roof, 
And seemed to love the sound far more 
Than ever I had done before. 
For rain it hath a friendly sound 
To one who's six feet underground; 
And scarce the friendly voice or face: 
A grave is such a quiet place. 
The rain, I said, is kind to come 
And speak to me in my new home. 
I would I were alive again 
To kiss the fingers of the rain, 
To drink into my eyes the shine 
Of every slanting silver line, 
To catch the freshened, fragrant breeze 
From drenched and dripping apple-trees. 
For soon the shower will be done, 
And then the broad face of the sun 
Will laugh above the rain-soaked earth 
Until the world with answering mirth 
Shakes joyously, and each round drop 
Rolls, twinkling, from its grass-blade top. 
How can I bear it; buried here, 
While overhead the sky grows clear 
And blue again after the storm? 
O, multi-colored, multiform, 
Beloved beauty over me, 
That I shall never, never see 
Again! Spring-silver, autumn-gold, 
That I shall never more behold! 
Sleeping your myriad magics through, 
Close-sepulchred away from you! 
O God, I cried, give me new birth, 
And put me back upon the earth! 
Upset each cloud's gigantic gourd 
And let the heavy rain, down-poured 
In one big torrent, set me free, 
Washing my grave away from me! 
I ceased; and, through the breathless hush 
That answered me, the far-off rush 
Of herald wings came whispering 
Like music down the vibrant string 
Of my ascending prayer, and -- crash! 
Before the wild wind's whistling lash 
The startled storm-clouds reared on high 
And plunged in terror down the sky, 
And the big rain in one black wave 
Fell from the sky and struck my grave. 
I know not how such things can be 
I only know there came to me 
A fragrance such as never clings 
To aught save happy living things; 
A sound as of some joyous elf 
Singing sweet songs to please himself, 
And, through and over everything, 
A sense of glad awakening. 
The grass, a-tiptoe at my ear, 
Whispering to me I could hear; 
I felt the rain's cool finger-tips 
Brushed tenderly across my lips, 
Laid gently on my sealed sight, 
And all at once the heavy night 
Fell from my eyes and I could see, -A 
drenched and dripping apple-tree, 
A last long line of silver rain, 
A sky grown clear and blue again. 
And as I looked a quickening gust 
Of wind blew up to me and thrust 
Into my face a miracle 
Of orchard-breath, and with the smell, -I 
know not how such things can be! -I 
breathed my soul back into me. 
Ah! Up then from the ground sprang I 
And hailed the earth with such a cry 
As is not heard save from a man 
Who has been dead, and lives again. 
About the trees my arms I wound; 
Like one gone mad I hugged the ground; 
I raised my quivering arms on high; 
I laughed and laughed into the sky, 
Till at my throat a strangling sob 
Caught fiercely, and a great heart-throb 
Sent instant tears into my eyes; 
O God, I cried, no dark disguise 
Can e'er hereafter hide from me 
Thy radiant identity! 
Thou canst not move across the grass 
But my quick eyes will see Thee pass, 
Nor speak, however silently, 
But my hushed voice will answer Thee. 
I know the path that tells Thy way 
Through the cool eve of every day; 
God, I can push the grass apart 
And lay my finger on Thy heart! 
The world stands out on either side 
No wider than the heart is wide; 
Above the world is stretched the sky, -No 
higher than the soul is high. 
The heart can push the sea and land 
Farther away on either hand; 
The soul can split the sky in two, 
And let the face of God shine through. 
But East and West will pinch the heart 
That cannot keep them pushed apart; 
And he whose soul is flat -- the sky 
Will cave in on him by and by. 
Rosemary 
For the sake of some things 
That be now no more 
I will strew rushes 
On my chamber-floor, 
I will plant bergamot 
At my kitchen-door. 
For the sake of dim things 
That were once so plain 
I will set a barrel 
Out to catch the rain, 
I will hang an iron pot 
On an iron crane. 
Many things be dead and gone 
That were brave and gay; 
For the sake of these things 
I will learn to say, 
"An it please you, gentle sirs," 
"Alack!" and "Well-a-day!" 
Scrub 
If I grow bitterly, 
Like a gnarled and stunted tree, 
Bearing harshly of my youth 
Puckered fruit that sears the mouth; 
If I make of my drawn boughs 
An Inshospitable House, 
Out of which I nevery pry 
Towards the water and the sky, 
Under which I stand and hide 
And hear the day go by outside; 
It is that a wind to strong 
Bent my back when I was young, 
It is that I fear the rain 
Lest it blister me again. 
Second Fig 
Safe upon the solid rock the ugly houses stand: 
Come and see my shining palace built upon the sand! 
She Is Overheard Singing 
Oh, Prue she has a patient man, 
And Joan a gentle lover, 
And Agatha's Arth' is a hug-the-hearth,­— 
But my true love's a rover! 
Mig, her man's as good as cheese 
And honest as a briar, 
Sue tells her love what he's thinking of,­— 
But my dear lad's a liar! 
Oh, Sue and Prue and Agatha 
Are thick with Mig and Joan! 
They bite their threads and shake their heads 
And gnaw my name like a bone; 
And Prue says, "Mine's a patient man, 
As never snaps me up,' 
And Agatha, "Arth' is a hug-the-hearth, 
Could live content in a cup,' 
Sue's man's mind is like good jell­— 
All one color, and clear­— 
And Mig's no call to think at all 
What's to come next year, 
While Joan makes boast of a gentle lad, 
That's troubled with that and this;­— 
But they all would give the life they live 
For a look from the man I kiss! 
Cold he slants his eyes about, 
And few enough's his choice,­— 
Though he'd slip me clean for a nun, or a queen, 
Or a beggar with knots in her voice,­ — 
And Agatha will turn awake 
While her good man sleeps sound, 
And Mig and Sue and Joan and Prue 
Will hear the clock strike round, 
For Prue she has a patient man, 
As asks not when or why, 
And Mig and Sue have naught to do 
But peep who's passing by, 
Joan is paired with a putterer 
That bastes and tastes and salts, 
And Agatha's Arth' is a hug-the-hearth,­— 
But my true love is false! 
Song Of A Second April 
April this year, not otherwise 
Than April of a year ago, 
Is full of whispers, full of sighs, 
Of dazzling mud and dingy snow; 
Hepaticas that pleased you so 
Are here again, and butterflies. 
There rings a hammering all day, 
And shingles lie about the doors; 
In orchards near and far away 
The grey wood-pecker taps and bores; 
The men are merry at their chores, 
And children earnest at their play. 
The larger streams run still and deep, 
Noisy and swift the small brooks run 
Among the mullein stalks the sheep 
Go up the hillside in the sun, 
Pensively,&mdash;only you are gone, 
You that alone I cared to keep. 
Sonnet (Women Have Loved Before As I Love Now) 
Women have loved before as I love now; 
At least, in lively chronicles of the past&mdash; 
Of Irish waters by a Cornish prow 
Or Trojan waters by a Spartan mast 
Much to their cost invaded&mdash;here and there, 
Hunting the amorous line, skimming the rest, 
I find some woman bearing as I bear 
Love like a burning city in the breast. 
I think however that of all alive 
I only in such utter, ancient way 
Do suffer love; in me alone survive 
The unregenerate passions of a day 
When treacherous queens, with death upon the tread, 
Heedless and willful, took their knights to bed. 
Sonnet 01: Thou Art Not Lovelier Than 
Lilacs,&Mdash;No 
Thou art not lovelier than lilacs,&mdash;no, 
Nor honeysuckle; thou art not more fair 
Than small white single poppies,&mdash;I can bear 
Thy beauty; though I bend before thee, though 
From left to right, not knowing where to go, 
I turn my troubled eyes, nor here nor there 
Find any refuge from thee, yet I swear 
So has it been with mist,&mdash;with moonlight so. 
Like him who day by day unto his draught
 Of delicate poison adds him one drop more 
Till he may drink unharmed the death of ten, 
Even so, inured to beauty, who have quaffed
 Each hour more deeply than the hour before, 
I drink&mdash;and live&mdash;what has destroyed some men. 
Sonnet 02: Time Does Not Bring Relief; You All Have 
Lied 
Time does not bring relief; you all have lied 
Who told me time would ease me of my pain! 
I miss him in the weeping of the rain; 
I want him at the shrinking of the tide; 
The old snows melt from every mountain-side, 
And last year's leaves are smoke in every lane; 
But last year's bitter loving must remain 
Heaped on my heart, and my old thoughts abide 
There are a hundred places where I fear
 To go,&mdash;so with his memory they brim 
And entering with relief some quiet place 
Where never fell his foot or shone his face 
I say, "There is no memory of him here!"
 And so stand stricken, so remembering him! 
Sonnet 03: Mindful Of You The Sodden Earth In 
Spring 
Mindful of you the sodden earth in spring, 
And all the flowers that in the springtime grow, 
And dusty roads, and thistles, and the slow 
Rising of the round moon, all throats that sing 
The summer through, and each departing wing, 
And all the nests that the bared branches show, 
And all winds that in any weather blow, 
And all the storms that the four seasons bring. 
You go no more on your exultant feet 
Up paths that only mist and morning knew, 
Or watch the wind, or listen to the beat 
Of a bird's wings too high in air to view,&mdash; 
But you were something more than young and sweet 
And fair,&mdash;and the long year remembers you. 
Sonnet 04: Not In This Chamber Only At My Birth 
Not in this chamber only at my birth&mdash; 
When the long hours of that mysterious night 
Were over, and the morning was in sight&mdash; 
I cried, but in strange places, steppe and firth 
I have not seen, through alien grief and mirth; 
And never shall one room contain me quite 
Who in so many rooms first saw the light, 
Child of all mothers, native of the earth. 
So is no warmth for me at any fire 
To-day, when the world's fire has burned so low; 
I kneel, spending my breath in vain desire, 
At that cold hearth which one time roared so strong, 
And straighten back in weariness, and long 
To gather up my little gods and go. 
Sonnet 05: If I Should Learn, In Some Quite Casual 
Way 
If I should learn, in some quite casual way, 
That you were gone, not to return again&mdash; 
Read from the back-page of a paper, say, 
Held by a neighbor in a subway train, 
How at the corner of this avenue 
And such a street (so are the papers filled) 
A hurrying man&mdash;who happened to be you&mdash; 
At noon to-day had happened to be killed, 
I should not cry aloud&mdash;I could not cry 
Aloud, or wring my hands in such a place&mdash; 
I should but watch the station lights rush by 
With a more careful interest on my face, 
Or raise my eyes and read with greater care
 Where to store furs and how to treat the hair. 
Sonnet 06: Bluebeard 
This door you might not open, and you did; 
So enter now, and see for what slight thing 
You are betrayed.... Here is no treasure hid 
No cauldron, no clear crystal mirroring 
The sought-for truth, no heads of women slain 
For greed like yours, no writhings of distress 
But only what you see.... Look yet again&mdash; 
An empty room, cobwebbed and comfortless 
Yet this alone out of my life I kept 
Unto myself, lest any know me quite; 
And you did so profane me when you crept
 Unto the threshold of this room to-night 
That I must never more behold your face. 
This now is yours. I seek another place. 
Sonnet I: Thou Art Not Lovelier Than Lilacs 
Thou art not lovelier than lilacs,--no, 
Nor honeysuckle; thou art not more fair 
Than small white single poppies,--I can bear 
Thy beauty; though I bend before thee, though 
From left to right, not knowing where to go, 
I turn my troubled eyes, nor here nor there 
Find any refuge from thee, yet I swear 
So has it been with mist,--with moonlight so. 
Like him who day by day unto his draught
 Of delicate poison adds him one drop more 
Till he may drink unharmed the death of ten, 
Even so, inured to beauty, who have quaffed
 Each hour more deeply than the hour before, 
I drink--and live--what has destroyed some men. 
Sonnet Iii: Mindful Of You The Sodden Earth 
Mindful of you the sodden earth in spring, 
And all the flowers that in the springtime grow, 
And dusty roads, and thistles, and the slow 
Rising of the round moon, all throats that sing 
The summer through, and each departing wing, 
And all the nests that the bared branches show, 
And all winds that in any weather blow, 
And all the storms that the four seasons bring. 
You go no more on your exultant feet 
Up paths that only mist and morning knew, 
Or watch the wind, or listen to the beat 
Of a bird's wings too high in air to view,-But 
you were something more than young and sweet 
And fair,--and the long year remembers you. 
Sonnet V: If I Should Learn 
If I should learn, in some quite casual way, 
That you were gone, not to return again-Read 
from the back-page of a paper, say, 
Held by a neighbor in a subway train, 
How at the corner of this avenue
 And such a street (so are the papers filled) 
A hurrying man--who happened to be you-At 
noon to-day had happened to be killed, 
I should not cry aloud--I could not cry 
Aloud, or wring my hands in such a place-I 
should but watch the station lights rush by
 With a more careful interest on my face, 
Or raise my eyes and read with greater care 
Where to store furs and how to treat the hair. 
Sonnet Vi: This Door You Might Not Open 
This door you might not open, and you did; 
So enter now, and see for what slight thing 
You are betrayed.... Here is no treasure hid,
 No cauldron, no clear crystal mirroring 
The sought-for truth, no heads of women slain 
For greed like yours, no writhings of distress, 
But only what you see.... Look yet again-An 
empty room, cobwebbed and comfortless. 
Yet this alone out of my life I kept 
Unto myself, lest any know me quite; 
And you did so profane me when you crept
 Unto the threshold of this room to-night 
That I must never more behold your face. 
This now is yours. I seek another place. 
Sonnets (1923) 
VIII8. 
Oh, oh, you will be sorry for that word! 
. 
Give back my book and take my kiss instead. 
. 
Was it my enemy or my friend I heard, 
. 
"What a big book for such a little head!" 
. 
Come, I will show you now my newest hat, 
. 
And you may watch me purse my mouth and prink! 
. 
Oh, I shall love you still, and all of that. 
. 
I never again shall tell you what I think. 
. 
I shall be sweet and crafty, soft and sly; 
.
 You will not catch me reading any more: 
.
 I shall be called a wife to pattern by; 
.
 And some day when you knock and push the door, 
.
 Some sane day, not too bright and not too stormy, 
.
 I shall be gone, and you may whistle for me. IX9. 
Here is a wound that never will heal, I know, 
. 
Being wrought not of a dearness and a death, 
. 
But of a love turned ashes and the breath 
. 
 Gone out of beauty; never again will grow 
. 
The grass on that scarred acre, though I sow 
. 
Young seed there yearly and the sky bequeath 
. 
Its friendly weathers down, far underneath 
. 
Shall be such bitterness of an old woe. 
. 
That April should be shattered by a gust, 
.
 That August should be levelled by a rain, 
.
 I can endure, and that the lifted dust 
.
 Of man should settle to the earth again; 
.
 But that a dream can die, will be a thrust 
.
 Between my ribs forever of hot pain. XVIII18. 
I, being born a woman and distressed 
. 
By all the needs and notions of my kind, 
. 
Am urged by your propinquity to find 
. 
Your person fair, and feel a certain zest 
. 
To bear your body's weight upon my breast: 
. 
So subtly is the fume of life designed, 
. 
To clarify the pulse and cloud the mind, 
. 
And leave me once again undone, possessed. 
. 
 Think not for this, however, the poor treason 
.
 Of my stout blood against my staggering brain, 
.
 I shall remember you with love, or season 
.
 My scorn with pity, -- let me make it plain: 
.
 I find this frenzy insufficient reason 
.
 For conversation when we meet again. XIX19. 
What lips my lips have kissed, and where, and why, 
. 
I have forgotten, and what arms have lain 
. 
Under my head till morning; but the rain 
. 
Is full of ghosts to-night, that tap and sigh 
. 
Upon the glass and listen for reply, 
. 
And in my heart there stirs a quiet pain 
. 
For unremembered lads that not again 
. 
Will turn to me at midnight with a cry. 
. 
Thus in the winter stands the lonely tree, 
.
 Nor knows what birds have vanished one by one, 
.
 Yet knows its boughs more silent than before: 
.
 I cannot say what loves have come and gone, 
.
 I only know that summer sang in me 
.
 A little while, that in me sings no more. 
Sonnets 01: We Talk Of Taxes, And I Call You Friend 
We talk of taxes, and I call you friend; 
Well, such you are,&mdash;but well enough we know 
How thick about us root, how rankly grow 
Those subtle weeds no man has need to tend, 
That flourish through neglect, and soon must send 
Perfume too sweet upon us and overthrow 
Our steady senses; how such matters go 
We are aware, and how such matters end. 
Yet shall be told no meagre passion here; 
With lovers such as we forevermore 
Isolde drinks the draught, and Guinevere 
Receives the Table's ruin through her door, 
Francesca, with the loud surf at her ear, 
Lets fall the colored book upon the floor. 
Sonnets 02: Into The Golden Vessel Of Great Song 
Into the golden vessel of great song 
Let us pour all our passion; breast to breast 
Let other lovers lie, in love and rest; 
Not we,&mdash;articulate, so, but with the tongue 
Of all the world: the churning blood, the long 
Shuddering quiet, the desperate hot palms pressed 
Sharply together upon the escaping guest, 
The common soul, unguarded, and grown strong. 
Longing alone is singer to the lute; 
Let still on nettles in the open sigh 
The minstrel, that in slumber is as mute 
As any man, and love be far and high, 
That else forsakes the topmost branch, a fruit 
Found on the ground by every passer-by. 
Sonnets 03: Not With Libations, But With Shouts And 
Laughter 
Not with libations, but with shouts and laughter 
We drenched the altars of Love's sacred grove, 
Shaking to earth green fruits, impatient after 
The launching of the colored moths of Love. 
Love's proper myrtle and his mother's zone 
We bound about our irreligious brows, 
And fettered him with garlands of our own, 
And spread a banquet in his frugal house. 
Not yet the god has spoken; but I fear 
Though we should break our bodies in his flame, 
And pour our blood upon his altar, here 
Henceforward is a grove without a name, 
A pasture to the shaggy goats of Pan, 
Whence flee forever a woman and a man. 
Sonnets 04: Only Until This Cigarette Is Ended 
Only until this cigarette is ended, 
A little moment at the end of all, 
While on the floor the quiet ashes fall, 
And in the firelight to a lance extended, 
Bizarrely with the jazzing music blended, 
The broken shadow dances on the wall, 
I will permit my memory to recall 
The vision of you, by all my dreams attended. 
And then adieu,&mdash;farewell!&mdash;the dream is done. 
Yours is a face of which I can forget 
The color and the features, every one, 
The words not ever, and the smiles not yet; 
But in your day this moment is the sun 
Upon a hill, after the sun has set. 
Sonnets 05: Once More Into My Arid Days Like Dew 
Once more into my arid days like dew, 
Like wind from an oasis, or the sound 
Of cold sweet water bubbling underground, 
A treacherous messenger, the thought of you 
Comes to destroy me; once more I renew 
Firm faith in your abundance, whom I found 
Long since to be but just one other mound 
Of sand, whereon no green thing ever grew. 
And once again, and wiser in no wise, 
I chase your colored phantom on the air, 
And sob and curse and fall and weep and rise 
And stumble pitifully on to where, 
Miserable and lost, with stinging eyes, 
Once more I clasp,&mdash;and there is nothing there. 
Sonnets 06: No Rose That In A Garden Ever Grew 
No rose that in a garden ever grew, 
In Homer's or in Omar's or in mine, 
Though buried under centuries of fine 
Dead dust of roses, shut from sun and dew 
Forever, and forever lost from view, 
But must again in fragrance rich as wine 
The grey aisles of the air incarnadine 
When the old summers surge into a new. 
Thus when I swear, "I love with all my heart," 
'Tis with the heart of Lilith that I swear, 
'Tis with the love of Lesbia and Lucrece; 
And thus as well my love must lose some part 
Of what it is, had Helen been less fair, 
Or perished young, or stayed at home in Greece. 
Sonnets 07: When I Too Long Have Looked Upon Your 
Face 
When I too long have looked upon your face, 
Wherein for me a brightness unobscured 
Save by the mists of brightness has its place, 
And terrible beauty not to be endured, 
I turn away reluctant from your light, 
And stand irresolute, a mind undone, 
A silly, dazzled thing deprived of sight 
From having looked too long upon the sun. 
Then is my daily life a narrow room 
In which a little while, uncertainly, 
Surrounded by impenetrable gloom, 
Among familiar things grown strange to me 
Making my way, I pause, and feel, and hark, 
Till I become accustomed to the dark. 
Sonnets 08: And You As Well Must Die, Beloved Dust 
And you as well must die, beloved dust, 
And all your beauty stand you in no stead; 
This flawless, vital hand, this perfect head, 
This body of flame and steel, before the gust 
Of Death, or under his autumnal frost, 
Shall be as any leaf, be no less dead 
Than the first leaf that fell,--this wonder fled. 
Altered, estranged, disintegrated, lost. 
Nor shall my love avail you in your hour. 
In spite of all my love, you will arise 
Upon that day and wander down the air 
Obscurely as the unattended flower, 
It mattering not how beautiful you were, 
Or how beloved above all else that dies. 
Sonnets 09: Let You Not Say Of Me When I Am Old 
Let you not say of me when I am old, 
In pretty worship of my withered hands 
Forgetting who I am, and how the sands 
Of such a life as mine run red and gold 
Even to the ultimate sifting dust, "Behold, 
Here walketh passionless age!"&mdash;for there expands 
A curious superstition in these lands, 
And by its leave some weightless tales are told. 
In me no lenten wicks watch out the night; 
I am the booth where Folly holds her fair; 
Impious no less in ruin than in strength, 
When I lie crumbled to the earth at length, 
Let you not say, "Upon this reverend site 
The righteous groaned and beat their breasts in prayer." 
Sonnets 10: Oh, My Beloved, Have You Thought Of 
This 
Oh, my beloved, have you thought of this: 
How in the years to come unscrupulous Time, 
More cruel than Death, will tear you from my kiss, 
And make you old, and leave me in my prime? 
How you and I, who scale together yet 
A little while the sweet, immortal height 
No pilgrim may remember or forget, 
As sure as the world turns, some granite night 
Shall lie awake and know the gracious flame 
Gone out forever on the mutual stone; 
And call to mind that on the day you came 
I was a child, and you a hero grown?&mdash; 
And the night pass, and the strange morning break 
Upon our anguish for each other's sake! 
Sonnets 11: As To Some Lovely Temple, Tenantless 
As to some lovely temple, tenantless 
Long since, that once was sweet with shivering brass, 
Knowing well its altars ruined and the grass 
Grown up between the stones, yet from excess 
Of grief hard driven, or great loneliness, 
The worshiper returns, and those who pass 
Marvel him crying on a name that was,&mdash; 
So is it now with me in my distress. 
Your body was a temple to Delight; 
Cold are its ashes whence the breath is fled, 
Yet here one time your spirit was wont to move; 
Here might I hope to find you day or night, 
And here I come to look for you, my love, 
Even now, foolishly, knowing you are dead. 
Sonnets 12: Cherish You Then The Hope I Shall 
Forget 
Cherish you then the hope I shall forget 
At length, my lord, Pieria?&mdash;put away 
For your so passing sake, this mouth of clay 
These mortal bones against my body set, 
For all the puny fever and frail sweat 
Of human love,&mdash;renounce for these, I say, 
The Singing Mountain's memory, and betray 
The silent lyre that hangs upon me yet? 
Ah, but indeed, some day shall you awake, 
Rather, from dreams of me, that at your side 
So many nights, a lover and a bride, 
But stern in my soul's chastity, have lain, 
To walk the world forever for my sake, 
And in each chamber find me gone again! 
Sonnets From An Ungrafted Tree 
XLI 
I, being born a woman and distressed 
By all the needs and notions of my kind, 
Am urged by your propinquity to find 
Your person fair, and feel a certain zest 
To bear you body's weight upon my breast: 
So subtly is the fume of life designed, 
To clairfy the pulse and cloud the mind, 
And leave me once again undone, possessed. 
Think not for this, however, the poor treason 
Of my stout blood against my staggering brain, 
I shall remember you with love, or season 
My scorn with pity,&mdash;let me make it plain: 
I find ths frenzy insufficient reason 
For conversation when we meet again. 
Sorrow 
Sorrow like a ceaseless rain
 Beats upon my heart. 
People twist and scream in pain,&mdash; 
Dawn will find them still again; 
This has neither wax nor wane,
 Neither stop nor start. 
People dress and go to town;
 I sit in my chair. 
All my thoughts are slow and brown: 
Standing up or sitting down 
Little matters, or what gown
 Or what shoes I wear. 
Souvenir 
Just a rainy day or two 
In a windy tower, 
That was all I had of you&mdash; 
Saving half an hour. 
Marred by greeting passing groups 
In a cinder walk, 
Near some naked blackberry hoops 
Dim with purple chalk. 
I remember three or four 
Things you said in spite, 
And an ugly coat you wore, 
Plaided black and white. 
Just a rainy day or two 
And a bitter word. 
Why do I remember you 
As a singing bird? 
Spring 
To what purpose, April, do you return again? 
Beauty is not enough. 
You can no longer quiet me with the redness 
Of little leaves opening stickily. 
I know what I know. 
The sun is hot on my neck as I observe 
The spikes of the crocus. 
The smell of the earth is good. 
It is apparent that there is no death. 
But what does that signify? 
Not only under ground are the brains of men 
Eaten by maggots. 
Life in itself 
Is nothing, 
An empty cup, a flight of uncarpeted stairs. 
It is not enough that yearly, down this hill, 
April 
Comes like an idiot, babbling and strewing flowers. 
Sweet Love, Sweet Thorn, When Lightly To My Heart 
Sweet love, sweet thorn, when lightly to my heart 
I took your thrust, whereby I since am slain, 
And lie disheveled in the grass apart, 
A sodden thing bedrenched by tears and rain, 
While rainy evening drips to misty night, 
And misty night to cloudy morning clears, 
And clouds disperse across the gathering light, 
And birds grow noisy, and the sun appears 
Had I bethought me then, sweet love, sweet thorn, 
How sharp an anguish even at the best, 
When all's requited and the future sworn, 
The happy Hour can leave within the breast, 
I had not so come running at the call 
Of one whoe loves me little, if at all. 
Tavern 
I'll keep a little tavern 
Below the high hill's crest, 
Wherein all grey-eyed people 
May set them down and rest. 
There shall be plates a-plenty, 
And mugs to melt the chill 
Of all the grey-eyed people 
Who happen up the hill. 
There sound will sleep the traveller, 
And dream his journey's end, 
But I will rouse at midnight 
The falling fire to tend. 
Aye, 'tis a curious fancy&mdash; 
But all the good I know 
Was taught me out of two grey eyes 
A long time ago. 
The Ballad Of The Harp-Weaver 
"Son," said my mother, 
When I was knee-high, 
"you've need of clothes to cover you, 
and not a rag have I. 
"There's nothing in the house 
To make a boy breeches, 
Nor shears to cut a cloth with, 
Nor thread to take stitches. 
"There's nothing in the house 
But a loaf-end of rye, 
And a harp with a woman's head 
Nobody will buy," 
And she began to cry. 
That was in the early fall. 
When came the late fall, 
"Son," she said, "the sight of you 
Makes your mother's blood crawl,&mdash; 
"Little skinny shoulder-blades 
Sticking through your clothes! 
And where you'll get a jacket from 
God above knows. 
"It's lucky for me, lad, 
Your daddy's in the ground, 
And can't see the way I let 
His son go around!" 
And she made a queer sound. 
That was in the late fall. 
When the winter came, 
I'd not a pair of breeches 
Nor a shirt to my name. 
I couldn't go to school, 
Or out of doors to play. 
And all the other little boys 
Passed our way. 
"Son," said my mother, 
"Come, climb into my lap, 
And I'll chafe your little bones 
While you take a nap." 
And, oh, but we were silly 
For half and hour or more, 
Me with my long legs, 
Dragging on the floor, 
A-rock-rock-rocking 
To a mother-goose rhyme! 
Oh, but we were happy 
For half an hour's time! 
But there was I, a great boy, 
And what would folks say 
To hear my mother singing me 
To sleep all day, 
In such a daft way? 
Men say the winter 
Was bad that year; 
Fuel was scarce, 
And food was dear. 
A wind with a wolf's head 
Howled about our door, 
And we burned up the chairs 
And sat upon the floor. 
All that was left us 
Was a chair we couldn't break, 
And the harp with a woman's head 
Nobody would take, 
For song or pity's sake. 
The night before Christmas 
I cried with cold, 
I cried myself to sleep 
Like a two-year old. 
And in the deep night 
I felt my mother rise, 
And stare down upon me 
With love in her eyes. 
I saw my mother sitting 
On the one good chair, 
A light falling on her 
From I couldn't tell where. 
Looking nineteen, 
And not a day older, 
And the harp with a woman's head 
Leaned against her shoulder. 
Her thin fingers, moving 
In the thin, tall strings, 
Were weav-weav-weaving 
Wonderful things. 
Many bright threads, 
From where I couldn't see, 
Were running through the harp-strings 
Rapidly, 
And gold threads whistling 
Through my mother's hand. 
I saw the web grow, 
And the pattern expand. 
She wove a child's jacket, 
And when it was done 
She laid it on the floor 
And wove another one. 
She wove a red cloak 
So regal to see, 
"She's made it for a king's son," 
I said, "and not for me." 
But I knew it was for me. 
She wove a pair of breeches 
Quicker than that! 
She wove a pair of boots 
And a little cocked hat. 
She wove a pair of mittens, 
Shw wove a little blouse, 
She wove all night 
In the still, cold house. 
She sang as she worked, 
And the harp-strings spoke; 
Her voice never faltered, 
And the thread never broke, 
And when I awoke,&mdash; 
There sat my mother 
With the harp against her shoulder, 
Looking nineteeen, 
And not a day older, 
A smile about her lips, 
And a light about her head, 
And her hands in the harp-strings 
Frozen dead. 
And piled beside her 
And toppling to the skies, 
Were the clothes of a king's son, 
Just my size. 
The Bean-Stalk 
Ho, Giant! This is I! 
I have built me a bean-stalk into your sky! 
La,&mdash;but it's lovely, up so high! 
This is how I came,&mdash;I put 
Here my knee, there my foot, 
Up and up, from shoot to shoot&mdash; 
And the blessed bean-stalk thinning 
Like the mischief all the time, 
Till it took me rocking, spinning, 
In a dizzy, sunny circle, 
Making angles with the root, 
Far and out above the cackle 
Of the city I was born in, 
Till the little dirty city 
In the light so sheer and sunny 
Shone as dazzling bright and pretty 
As the money that you find 
In a dream of finding money&mdash; 
What a wind! What a morning!&mdash; 
Till the tiny, shiny city, 
When I shot a glance below, 
Shaken with a giddy laughter, 
Sick and blissfully afraid, 
Was a dew-drop on a blade, 
And a pair of moments after 
Was the whirling guess I made,&mdash; 
And the wind was like a whip 
Cracking past my icy ears, 
And my hair stood out behind, 
And my eyes were full of tears, 
Wide-open and cold, 
More tears than they could hold, 
The wind was blowing so, 
And my teeth were in a row, 
Dry and grinning, 
And I felt my foot slip, 
And I scratched the wind and whined, 
And I clutched the stalk and jabbered, 
With my eyes shut blind,&mdash; 
What a wind! What a wind! 
Your broad sky, Giant, 
Is the shelf of a cupboard; 
I make bean-stalks, I'm 
A builder, like yourself, 
But bean-stalks is my trade, 
I couldn't make a shelf, 
Don't know how they're made, 
Now, a bean-stalk is more pliant&mdash; 
La, what a climb! 
The Betrothal
 Oh, come, my lad, or go, my lad, 
And love me if you like. 
I shall not hear the door shut 
Nor the knocker strike. 
Oh, bring me gifts or beg me gifts, 
And wed me if you will. 
I'd make a man a good wife, 
Sensible and still. 
And why should I be cold, my lad,
 And why should you repine, 
Because I love a dark head 
That never will be mine? 
I might as well be easing you 
As lie alone in bed 
And waste the night in wanting 
A cruel dark head. 
You might as well be calling yours 
What never will be his, 
And one of us be happy. 
There's few enough as is. 
The Blue-Flag In The Bog 
God had called us, and we came; 
Our loved Earth to ashes left; 
Heaven was a neighbor's house, 
Open to us, bereft. 
Gay the lights of Heaven showed, 
And 'twas God who walked ahead; 
Yet I wept along the road, 
Wanting my own house instead. 
Wept unseen, unheeded cried, 
"All you things my eyes have kissed, 
Fare you well! We meet no more, 
Lovely, lovely tattered mist! 
Weary wings that rise and fall 
All day long above the fire!"&mdash; 
Red with heat was every wall, 
Rough with heat was every wire&mdash; 
"Fare you well, you little winds 
That the flying embers chase! 
Fare you well, you shuddering day, 
With your hands before your face! 
And, ah, blackened by strange blight, 
Or to a false sun unfurled, 
Now forevermore goodbye, 
All the gardens in the world! 
On the windless hills of Heaven, 
That I have no wish to see, 
White, eternal lilies stand, 
By a lake of ebony. 
But the Earth forevermore 
Is a place where nothing grows,&mdash; 
Dawn will come, and no bud break; 
Evening, and no blossom close. 
Spring will come, and wander slow 
Over an indifferent land, 
Stand beside an empty creek, 
Hold a dead seed in her hand." 
God had called us, and we came, 
But the blessed road I trod 
Was a bitter road to me, 
And at heart I questioned God. 
"Though in Heaven," I said, "be all 
That the heart would most desire, 
Held Earth naught save souls of sinners 
Worth the saving from a fire? 
Withered grass,&mdash;the wasted growing! 
Aimless ache of laden boughs!" 
Little things God had forgotten 
Called me, from my burning house. 
"Though in Heaven," I said, "be all 
That the eye could ask to see, 
All the things I ever knew 
Are this blaze in back of me." 
"Though in Heaven," I said, "be all 
That the ear could think to lack, 
All the things I ever knew 
Are this roaring at my back." 
It was God who walked ahead, 
Like a shepherd to the fold; 
In his footsteps fared the weak, 
And the weary and the old, 
Glad enough of gladness over, 
Ready for the peace to be,&mdash; 
But a thing God had forgotten 
Was the growing bones of me. 
And I drew a bit apart, 
And I lagged a bit behind, 
And I thought on Peace Eternal, 
Lest He look into my mind: 
And I gazed upon the sky, 
And I thought of Heavenly Rest,&mdash; 
And I slipped away like water 
Through the fingers of the blest! 
All their eyes were fixed on Glory, 
Not a glance brushed over me; 
"Alleluia! Alleluia!" 
Up the road,&mdash;and I was free. 
And my heart rose like a freshet, 
And it swept me on before, 
Giddy as a whirling stick, 
Till I felt the earth once more. 
All the earth was charred and black, 
Fire had swept from pole to pole; 
And the bottom of the sea 
Was as brittle as a bowl; 
And the timbered mountain-top 
Was as naked as a skull,&mdash; 
Nothing left, nothing left, 
Of the Earth so beautiful! 
"Earth," I said, "how can I leave you?" 
"You are all I have," I said; 
"What is left to take my mind up, 
Living always, and you dead?" 
"Speak!" I said, "Oh, tell me something! 
Make a sign that I can see! 
For a keepsake! To keep always! 
Quick!&mdash;before God misses me!" 
And I listened for a voice;&mdash; 
But my heart was all I heard; 
Not a screech-owl, not a loon, 
Not a tree-toad said a word. 
And I waited for a sign;&mdash; 
Coals and cinders, nothing more; 
And a little cloud of smoke 
Floating on a valley floor. 
And I peered into the smoke 
Till it rotted, like a fog:&mdash; 
There, encompassed round by fire, 
Stood a blue-flag in a bog! 
Little flames came wading out, 
Straining, straining towards its stem, 
But it was so blue and tall 
That it scorned to think of them! 
Red and thirsty were their tongues, 
As the tongues of wolves must be, 
But it was so blue and tall&mdash; 
Oh, I laughed, I cried, to see! 
All my heart became a tear, 
All my soul became a tower, 
Never loved I anything 
As I loved that tall blue flower! 
It was all the little boats 
That had ever sailed the sea, 
It was all the little books 
That had gone to school with me; 
On its roots like iron claws 
Rearing up so blue and tall,&mdash; 
It was all the gallant Earth 
With its back against a wall! 
In a breath, ere I had breathed,&mdash; 
Oh, I laughed, I cried, to see!&mdash; 
I was kneeling at its side, 
And it leaned its head on me! 
Crumbling stones and sliding sand 
Is the road to Heaven now; 
Icy at my straining knees 
Drags the awful under-tow; 
Soon but stepping-stones of dust 
Will the road to Heaven be,&mdash; 
Father, Son and Holy Ghost, 
Reach a hand and rescue me! 
"There&mdash;there, my blue-flag flower; 
Hush&mdash;hush&mdash;go to sleep; 
That is only God you hear, 
Counting up His folded sheep! 
Lullabye&mdash;lullabye&mdash; 
That is only God that calls, 
Missing me, seeking me, 
Ere the road to nothing falls! 
He will set His mighty feet 
Firmly on the sliding sand; 
Like a little frightened bird 
I will creep into His hand; 
I will tell Him all my grief, 
I will tell Him all my sin; 
He will give me half His robe 
For a cloak to wrap you in. 
Lullabye&mdash;lullabye&mdash;" 
Rocks the burnt-out planet free!&mdash; 
Father, Son and Holy Ghost, 
Reach a hand and rescue me! 
Ah, the voice of love at last! 
Lo, at last the face of light! 
And the whole of His white robe 
For a cloak against the night! 
And upon my heart asleep 
All the things I ever knew!&mdash; 
"Holds Heaven not some cranny, Lord, 
For a flower so tall and blue?" 
All's well and all's well! 
Gay the lights of Heaven show! 
In some moist and Heavenly place 
We will set it out to grow. 
The Concert 
No, I will go alone. 
I will come back when it's over. 
Yes, of course I love you. 
No, it will not be long. 
Why may you not come with me?&mdash; 
You are too much my lover. 
You would put yourself 
Between me and song. 
If I go alone, 
Quiet and suavely clothed, 
My body will die in its chair, 
And over my head a flame, 
A mind that is twice my own, 
Will mark with icy mirth 
The wise advance and retreat 
Of armies without a country, 
Storming a nameless gate, 
Hurling terrible javelins down 
From the shouting walls of a singing town 
Where no women wait! 
Armies clean of love and hate, 
Marching lines of pitiless sound 
Climbing hills to the sun and hurling 
Golden spears to the ground! 
Up the lines a silver runner 
Bearing a banner whereon is scored 
The milk and steel of a bloodless wound 
Healed at length by the sword! 
You and I have nothing to do with music. 
We may not make of music a filigree frame, 
Within which you and I, 
Tenderly glad we came, 
Sit smiling, hand in hand. 
Come now, be content. 
I will come back to you, I swear I will; 
And you will know me still. 
I shall be only a little taller 
Than when I went. 
The Courage That My Mother Had 
The courage that my mother had 
Went with her, and is with her still: 
Rock from New England quarried; 
Now granite in a granite hill. 
The golden brooch my mother wore 
She left behind for me to wear; 
I have no thing I treasure more: 
Yet, it is something I could spare. 
Oh, if instead she'd left to me 
The thing she took into the grave!— 
That courage like a rock, which she 
Has no more need of, and I have. 
The Curse 
Oh, lay my ashes on the wind 
That blows across the sea. 
And I shall meet a fisherman 
Out of Capri, 
And he will say, seeing me, 
"What a Strange Thing! 
Like a fish's scale or a 
Butterfly's wing." 
Oh, lay my ashes on the wind 
That blows away the fog. 
And I shall meet a farmer boy 
Leaping through the bog, 
And he will say, seeing me, 
"What a Strange Thing! 
Like a peat-ash or a 
Butterfly's wing." 
And I shall blow to YOUR house 
And, sucked against the pane, 
See you take your sewing up 
And lay it down again. 
And you will say, seeing me, 
"What a strange thing! 
Like a plum petal or a 
Butterfly's wing." 
And none at all will know me 
That knew me well before. 
But I will settle at the root 
That climbs about your door, 
And fishermen and farmers 
May see me and forget, 
But I'll be a bitter berry 
In your brewing yet. 
The Death Of Autumn 
When reeds are dead and a straw to thatch the marshes, 
And feathered pampas-grass rides into the wind 
Like aged warriors westward, tragic, thinned 
Of half their tribe, and over the flattened rushes, 
Stripped of its secret, open, stark and bleak, 
Blackens afar the half-forgotten creek,&mdash; 
Then leans on me the weight of the year, and crushes 
My heart. I know that Beauty must ail and die, 
And will be born again,&mdash;but ah, to see 
Beauty stiffened, staring up at the sky! 
Oh, Autumn! Autumn!&mdash;What is the Spring to me? 
The Dream 
Love, if I weep it will not matter, 
And if you laugh I shall not care; 
Foolish am I to think about it, 
But it is good to feel you there. 
Love, in my sleep I dreamed of waking,&mdash; 
White and awful the moonlight reached 
Over the floor, and somewhere, somewhere, 
There was a shutter loose,&mdash;it screeched! 
Swung in the wind,&mdash;and no wind blowing!&mdash; 
I was afraid, and turned to you, 
Put out my hand to you for comfort,&mdash; 
And you were gone! Cold, cold as dew, 
Under my hand the moonlight lay! 
Love, if you laugh I shall not care, 
But if I weep it will not matter,&mdash; 
Ah, it is good to feel you there! 
The Fawn 
There it was I saw what I shall never forget 
And never retrieve. 
Monstrous and beautiful to human eyes, hard to 
believe, 
He lay, yet there he lay, 
Asleep on the moss, his head on his polished cleft 
small ebony hoves, 
The child of the doe, the dappled child of the deer. 
Surely his mother had never said, "Lie here 
Till I return," so spotty and plain to see 
On the green moss lay he. 
His eyes had opened; he considered me. 
I would have given more than I care to say 
To thrifty ears, might I have had him for my friend 
One moment only of that forest day: 
Might I have had the acceptance, not the love 
Of those clear eyes; 
Might I have been for him in the bough above 
Or the root beneath his forest bed, 
A part of the forest, seen without surprise. 
Was it alarm, or was it the wind of my fear lest he 
depart 
That jerked him to his jointy knees, 
And sent him crashing off, leaping and stumbling 
On his new legs, between the stems of the white 
trees? 
The Fledgling 
So, art thou feahered, art thou flown, 
Thou naked thing?&mdash;and canst alone 
Upon the unsolid summer air 
Sustain thyself, and prosper there? 
Shall no more with anxious note 
Advise thee through the happy day, 
Thrusting the worm into thy throat, 
Bearing thine excrement away? 
Alas, I think I see thee yet, 
Perched on the windy parapet, 
Defer thy flight a moment still 
To clean thy wing with careful bill. 
And thou are feathered, thou art flown; 
And hast a project of thine own. 
The Goose-Girl 
Spring rides no horses down the hill, 
But comes on foot, a goose-girl still. 
And all the loveliest things there be 
Come simply, so, it seems to me. 
If ever I said, in grief or pride, 
I tired of honest things, I lied: 
And should be cursed forevermore 
With Love in laces, like a whore, 
And neighbours cold, and friends unsteady, 
And Spring on horseback, like a lady! 
The Leaf And The Tree 
When will you learn, myself, to be 
a dying leaf on a living tree? 
Budding, swelling, growing strong, 
Wearing green, but not for long, 
Drawing sustenance from air, 
That other leaves, and you not there, 
May bud, and at the autumn's call 
Wearing russet, ready to fall? 
Has not this trunk a deed to do 
Unguessed by small and tremulous you? 
Shall not these branches in the end 
To wisdom and the truth ascend? 
And the great lightning plunging by 
Look sidewise with a golden eye 
To glimpse a tree so tall and proud 
It sheds its leaves upon a cloud? 
Here, I think, is the heart's grief: 
The tree, no mightier than the leaf, 
Makes firm its root and spreads it crown 
And stands; but in the end comes down. 
That airy top no boy could climb 
Is trodden in a little time 
By cattle on their way to drink. 
The fluttering thoughts a leaf can think, 
That hears the wind and waits its turn, 
Have taught it all a tree can learn. 
Time can make soft that iron wood. 
The tallest trunk that ever stood, 
In time, without a dream to keep, 
Crawls in beside the root to sleep. 
The Little Ghost 
I knew her for a little ghost 
That in my garden walked; 
The wall is high&mdash;higher than most&mdash; 
And the green gate was locked. 
And yet I did not think of that 
Till after she was gone&mdash; 
I knew her by the broad white hat, 
All ruffled, she had on. 
By the dear ruffles round her feet, 
By her small hands that hung 
In their lace mitts, austere and sweet, 
Her gown's white folds among. 
I watched to see if she would stay, 
What she would do&mdash;and oh! 
She looked as if she liked the way 
I let my garden grow! 
She bent above my favourite mint 
With conscious garden grace, 
She smiled and smiled&mdash;there was no hint 
Of sadness in her face. 
She held her gown on either side 
To let her slippers show, 
And up the walk she went with pride, 
The way great ladies go. 
And where the wall is built in new 
And is of ivy bare 
She paused&mdash;then opened and passed through 
A gate that once was there. 
The Little Hill 
Oh, here the air is sweet and still, 
And soft's the grass to lie on; 
And far away's the little hill 
They took for Christ to die on. 
And there's a hill across the brook, 
And down the brook's another; 
But, oh, the little hill they took,&mdash; 
I think I am its mother! 
The moon that saw Gethsemane, 
I watch it rise and set: 
It has so many things to see, 
They help it to forget. 
But little hills that sit at home 
So many hundred years, 
Remember Greece, remember Rome, 
Remember Mary's tears. 
And far away in Palestine, 
Sadder than any other, 
Grieves still the hill that I call mine,&mdash; 
I think I am its mother! 
The Penitent 
I had a little Sorrow, 
Born of a little Sin, 
I found a room all damp with gloom 
And shut us all within; 
And, "Little Sorrow, weep," said I, 
"And, Little Sin, pray God to die, 
And I upon the floor will lie 
And think how bad I've been!" 
Alas for pious planning&mdash; 
It mattered not a whit! 
As far as gloom went in that room, 
The lamp might have been lit! 
My little Sorrow would not weep, 
My little Sin would go to sleep&mdash; 
To save my soul I could not keep 
My graceless mind on it! 
So I got up in anger, 
And took a book I had, 
And put a ribbon on my hair 
To please a passing lad, 
And, "One thing there's no getting by&mdash; 
I've been a wicked girl," said I: 
"But if I can't be sorry, why, 
I might as well be glad!" 
The Philosopher 
And what are you that, wanting you, 
I should be kept awake 
As many nights as there are days 
With weeping for your sake? 
And what are you that, missing you, 
As many days as crawl 
I should be listening to the wind 
And looking at the wall? 
I know a man that's a braver man 
And twenty men as kind, 
And what are you, that you should be 
The one man in my mind? 
Yet women's ways are witless ways, 
As any sage will tell,&mdash; 
And what am I, that I should love 
So wisely and so well? 
The Plaid Dress 
Strong sun, that bleach 
The curtains of my room, can you not render 
Colourless this dress I wear?&mdash; 
This violent plaid 
Of purple angers and red shames; the yellow stripe 
Of thin but valid treacheries; the flashy green of kind deeds done 
Through indolence high judgments given here in haste; 
The recurring checker of the serious breach of taste? 
No more uncoloured than unmade, 
I fear, can be this garment that I may not doff; 
Confession does not strip it off, 
To send me homeward eased and bare; 
All through the formal, unoffending evening, under the clean 
Bright hair, 
Lining the subtle gown. . .it is not seen, 
But it is there. 
The Poet And His Book 
Down, you mongrel, Death! 
Back into your kennel! 
I have stolen breath 
In a stalk of fennel! 
You shall scratch and you shall whine 
Many a night, and you shall worry 
Many a bone, before you bury 
One sweet bone of mine! 
When shall I be dead? 
When my flesh is withered, 
And above my head 
Yellow pollen gathered 
All the empty afternoon? 
When sweet lovers pause and wonder 
Whom am I that lie thereunder, 
Hidden from the moon? 
This my personal death?&mdash; 
That my lungs be failing 
To inhale the breath 
Others are exhaling? 
This my subtle spirit's end?&mdash; 
Ah, when the thawed winter splashes 
Over these chance dust and ashes, 
Weep not me, my friend! 
Me, by no means dead 
In that hour, but surely 
When this book, unread, 
Rots to earth obscurely, 
And no more to any breast, 
Close against the clamorous swelling 
Of the thing there is no telling, 
Are these pages pressed! 
When this book is mould, 
And a book of many 
Waiting to be sold 
For a casual penny, 
In a little open case, 
In a street unclean and cluttered, 
Where a heavy mud is spattered 
From the passing drays, 
Stranger, pause and look; 
From the dust of ages 
Lift this little book, 
Turn the tattered pages, 
Read me, do not let me die! 
Search the fading letters, finding 
Steadfast in the broken binding 
All that once was I! 
When these veins are weeds, 
When these hollowed sockets 
Watch the rooty seeds 
Bursting down like rockets, 
And surmise the spring again, 
Or, remote in that black cupboard, 
Watch the pink worms writhing upward 
At the smell of rain, 
Boys and girls that lie 
Whispering in the hedges, 
Do not let me die, 
Mix me with your pledges; 
Boys and girls that slowly walk 
In the woods, and weep, and quarrel, 
Staring past the pink wild laurel, 
Mix me with your talk, 
Do not let me die! 
Farmers at your raking, 
When the sun is high, 
While the hay is making, 
When, along the stubble strewn, 
Withering on their stalks uneaten, 
Strawberries turn dark and sweeten 
In the lapse of noon; 
Shepherds on the hills, 
In the pastures, drowsing 
To the tinkling bells 
Of the brown sheep browsing; 
Sailors cying through the storm; 
Scholars at your study; hunters 
Lost amid the whirling winter's 
Whiteness uniform; 
Men that long to sleep; 
Men that wake and revel;&mdash; 
If an old song leap 
To your senses' level 
At such moments, may it be 
Sometimes, though a moment only, 
Some forgotten, quaint and homely 
Vehicle of me? 
Women at your toil, 
Women at your leisure, 
Till the kettle boil, 
Snatch of me your pleasure, 
Where the broom-straw marks the leaf; 
Women quiet with your weeping 
Lest you wake a workman sleeping, 
Mix me with your grief. 
Boys and girls that steal 
From the shocking laughter 
Of the old, to kneel 
By a dripping rafter 
Under the discoloured eaves, 
Out of trunks with hingeless covers 
Lifting tales of saints and lovers, 
Travellers, goblins, theives, 
Suns that shine by night, 
Mountains made from valleys,&mdash; 
Bear me to the light, 
Flat upon your bellies 
By the webby window lie, 
Where the little flies are crawling, 
Read me, margin me with scrawling, 
Do no let me die! 
Sexton, ply your trade! 
In a shower of gravel 
Stamp upon your spade! 
Many a rose shall ravel, 
Many a metal wreath shall rust 
In the rain, and I go singing 
Through the lots where you are flinging 
Yellow clay on dust! 
The Prisoner 
ALL right, 
Go ahead! 
What's in a name? 
I guess I'll be locked into 
As much as I'm locked out of! 
The Return From Town 
As I sat down by Saddle Stream 
To bathe my dusty feet there, 
A boy was standing on the bridge 
Any girl would meet there. 
As I went over Woody Knob 
A youth was coming up the hill 
Any maid would follow. 
Then in I turned at my own gate,&mdash; 
And nothing to be sad for&mdash; 
To such a man as any WIFE 
Would pass a pretty lad for. 
The Shroud 
Death, I say, my heart is bowed 
Unto thine,&mdash;O mother! 
This red gown will make a shroud 
Good as any other! 
(I, that would not wait to wear 
My own bridal things, 
In a dress dark as my hair 
Made my answerings. 
I, to-night, that till he came 
Could not, could not wait, 
In a gown as bright as flame 
Held for them the gate. ) 
Death, I say, my heart is bowed 
Unto thine,&mdash;O mother! 
This red gown will make a shroud 
Good as any other! 
The Singing-Woman From The Wood's Edge 
What should I be but a prophet and a liar, 
Whose mother was a leprechaun, whose father was a friar? 
Teethed on a crucifix and cradled under water, 
What should I be but the fiend's god-daughter? 
And who should be my playmates but the adder and the frog, 
That was got beneath a furze-bush and born in a bog? 
And what should be my singing, that was christened at an altar, 
But Aves and Credos and Psalms out of the Psalter? 
You will see such webs on the wet grass, maybe, 
As a pixie-mother weaves for her baby, 
You will find such flame at the wave's weedy ebb 
As flashes in the meshes of a mer-mother's web, 
But there comes to birth no common spawn 
From the love a a priest for a leprechaun, 
And you never have seen and you never will see 
Such things as the things that swaddled me! 
After all's said and after all's done, 
What should I be but a harlot and a nun? 
In through the bushes, on any foggy day, 
My Da would come a-swishing of the drops away, 
With a prayer for my death and a groan for my birth, 
A-mumbling of his beads for all that he was worth. 
And there'd sit my Ma, with her knees beneath her chin, 
A-looking in his face and a-drinking of it in, 
And a-marking in the moss some funny little saying 
That would mean just the opposite of all that he was praying! 
He taught me the holy-talk of Vesper and of Matin, 
He heard me my Greek and he heard me my Latin, 
He blessed me and crossed me to keep my soul from evil, 
And we watched him out of sight, and we conjured up the devil! 
Oh, the things I haven't seen and the things I haven't known, 
What with hedges and ditches till after I was grown, 
And yanked both way by my mother and my father, 
With a "Which would you better?" and a " Which would you 
rather?" 
With him for a sire and her for a dam, 
What should I be but just what I am? 
The Snow Storm 
No hawk hangs over in this air: 
The urgent snow is everywhere. 
The wing adroiter than a sail 
Must lean away from such a gale, 
Abandoning its straight intent, 
Or else expose tough ligament 
And tender flesh to what before 
Meant dampened feathers, nothing more. 
Forceless upon our backs there fall 
Infrequent flakes hexagonal, 
Devised in many a curious style 
To charm our safety for a while, 
Where close to earth like mice we go 
Under the horizontal snow. 
The Spring And The Fall 
In the spring of the year, in the spring of the year, 
I walked the road beside my dear. 
The trees were black where the bark was wet. 
I see them yet, in the spring of the year. 
He broke me a bough of the blossoming peach 
That was out of the way and hard to reach. 
In the fall of the year, in the fall of the year, 
I walked the road beside my dear. 
The rooks went up with a raucous trill. 
I hear them still, in the fall of the year. 
He laughed at all I dared to praise, 
And broke my heart, in little ways. 
Year be springing or year be falling, 
The bark will drip and the birds be calling. 
There's much that's fine to see and hear 
In the spring of a year, in the fall of a year. 
'Tis not love's going hurt my days. 
But that it went in little ways. 
The Suicide 
"Curse thee, Life, I will live with thee no more! 
Thou hast mocked me, starved me, beat my body sore! 
And all for a pledge that was not pledged by me, 
I have kissed thy crust and eaten sparingly 
That I might eat again, and met thy sneers 
With deprecations, and thy blows with tears,&mdash; 
Aye, from thy glutted lash, glad, crawled away, 
As if spent passion were a holiday! 
And now I go. Nor threat, nor easy vow 
Of tardy kindness can avail thee now 
With me, whence fear and faith alike are flown; 
Lonely I came, and I depart alone, 
And know not where nor unto whom I go; 
But that thou canst not follow me I know." 
Thus I to Life, and ceased; but through my brain 
My thought ran still, until I spake again: 
"Ah, but I go not as I came,&mdash;no trace 
Is mine to bear away of that old grace 
I brought! I have been heated in thy fires, 
Bent by thy hands, fashioned to thy desires, 
Thy mark is on me! I am not the same 
Nor ever more shall be, as when I came. 
Ashes am I of all that once I seemed. 
In me all's sunk that leapt, and all that dreamed 
Is wakeful for alarm,&mdash;oh, shame to thee, 
For the ill change that thou hast wrought in me, 
Who laugh no more nor lift my throat to sing 
Ah, Life, I would have been a pleasant thing 
To have about the house when I was grown 
If thou hadst left my little joys alone! 
I asked of thee no favor save this one: 
That thou wouldst leave me playing in the sun! 
And this thou didst deny, calling my name 
Insistently, until I rose and came. 
I saw the sun no more.&mdash;It were not well 
So long on these unpleasant thoughts to dwell, 
Need I arise to-morrow and renew 
Again my hated tasks, but I am through 
With all things save my thoughts and this one night, 
So that in truth I seem already quite 
Free,and remote from thee,&mdash;I feel no haste 
And no reluctance to depart; I taste 
Merely, with thoughtful mien, an unknown draught, 
That in a little while I shall have quaffed." 
Thus I to Life, and ceased, and slightly smiled, 
Looking at nothing; and my thin dreams filed 
Before me one by one till once again 
I set new words unto an old refrain: 
"Treasures thou hast that never have been mine! 
Warm lights in many a secret chamber shine 
Of thy gaunt house, and gusts of song have blown 
Like blossoms out to me that sat alone! 
And I have waited well for thee to show 
If any share were mine,&mdash;and now I go 
Nothing I leave, and if I naught attain 
I shall but come into mine own again!" 
Thus I to Life, and ceased, and spake no more, 
But turning, straightway, sought a certain door 
In the rear wall. Heavy it was, and low 
And dark,&mdash;a way by which none e'er would go 
That other exit had, and never knock 
Was heard thereat,&mdash;bearing a curious lock 
Some chance had shown me fashioned faultily, 
Whereof Life held content the useless key, 
And great coarse hinges, thick and rough with rust, 
Whose sudden voice across a silence must, 
I knew, be harsh and horrible to hear,&mdash; 
A strange door, ugly like a dwarf.&mdash;So near 
I came I felt upon my feet the chill 
Of acid wind creeping across the sill. 
So stood longtime, till over me at last 
Came weariness, and all things other passed 
To make it room; the still night drifted deep 
Like snow about me, and I longed for sleep. 
But, suddenly, marking the morning hour, 
Bayed the deep-throated bell within the tower! 
Startled, I raised my head,&mdash;and with a shout 
Laid hold upon the latch,&mdash;and was without. 
* * * * 
Ah, long-forgotten, well-remembered road, 
Leading me back unto my old abode, 
My father's house! There in the night I came, 
And found them feasting, and all things the same 
As they had been before. A splendour hung 
Upon the walls, and such sweet songs were sung 
As, echoing out of very long ago, 
Had called me from the house of Life, I know. 
So fair their raiment shone I looked in shame 
On the unlovely garb in which I came; 
Then straightway at my hesitancy mocked: 
"It is my father's house!" I said and knocked; 
And the door opened. To the shining crowd 
Tattered and dark I entered, like a cloud, 
Seeing no face but his; to him I crept, 
And "Father!" I cried, and clasped his knees, and wept. 
* * * * 
Ah, days of joy that followed! All alone 
I wandered through the house. My own, my own, 
My own to touch, my own to taste and smell, 
All I had lacked so long and loved so well! 
None shook me out of sleep, nor hushed my song, 
Nor called me in from the sunlight all day long. 
I know not when the wonder came to me 
Of what my father's business might be, 
And whither fared and on what errands bent 
The tall and gracious messengers he sent. 
Yet one day with no song from dawn till night 
Wondering, I sat, and watched them out of sight. 
And the next day I called; and on the third 
Asked them if I might go,&mdash;but no one heard. 
Then, sick with longing, I arose at last 
And went unto my father,&mdash;in that vast 
Chamber wherein he for so many years 
Has sat, surrounded by his charts and spheres. 
"Father," I said, "Father, I cannot play 
The harp that thou didst give me, and all day 
I sit in idleness, while to and fro 
About me thy serene, grave servants go; 
And I am weary of my lonely ease. 
Better a perilous journey overseas 
Away from thee, than this, the life I lead, 
To sit all day in the sunshine like a weed 
That grows to naught,&mdash;I love thee more than they 
Who serve thee most; yet serve thee in no way. 
Father, I beg of thee a little task 
To dignify my days,&mdash;'tis all I ask 
Forever, but forever, this denied, 
I perish." 
"Child," my father's voice replied, 
"All things thy fancy hath desired of me 
Thou hast received. I have prepared for thee 
Within my house a spacious chamber, where 
Are delicate things to handle and to wear, 
And all these things are thine. Dost thou love song? 
My minstrels shall attend thee all day long. 
Or sigh for flowers? My fairest gardens stand 
Open as fields to thee on every hand. 
And all thy days this word shall hold the same: 
No pleasure shalt thou lack that thou shalt name. 
But as for tasks&mdash;" he smiled, and shook his head; 
"Thou hadst thy task, and laidst it by," he said. 
The True Encounter 
"Wolf!" cried my cunning heart 
At every sheep it spied, 
And roused the countryside. 
"Wolf! Wolf!"&mdash;and up would start 
Good neighbours, bringing spade 
And pitchfork to my aid. 
At length my cry was known: 
Therein lay my release. 
I met the wolf alone 
And was devoured in peace. 
The Unexplorer 
There was a road ran past our house 
Too lovely to explore. 
I asked my mother once&mdash;she said 
That if you followed where it led 
It brought you to the milk-man's door. 
(That's why I have not travelled more.) 
The Wood Road 
If I were to walk this way 
Hand in hand with Grief, 
I should mark that maple-spray 
Coming into leaf. 
I should note how the old burrs 
Rot upon the ground. 
Yes, though Grief should know me hers 
While the world goes round, 
It could not if truth be said 
This was lost on me: 
A rock-maple showing red, 
Burrs beneath a tree. 
Think Not, Not For A Moment Let Your Mind 
Think not, not for a moment let your mind, 
Wearied with thinking, doze upon the thought 
That the work's done and the long day behind, 
And beauty, since 'tis paid for, can be bought. 
If in the moonlight from the silent bough 
Suddenly with precision speak your name 
The nightingale, be not assured that now 
His wing is limed and his wild virtue tame. 
Beauty beyond all feathers that have flown 
Is free; you shall not hood her to your wrist, 
Nor sting her eyes, nor have her for your own 
In an fashion; beauty billed and kissed 
Is not your turtle; tread her like a dove 
She loves you not; she never heard of love. 
Three Songs Of Shattering 
I 
The first rose on my rose-tree 
Budded, bloomed, and shattered, 
During sad days when to me 
Nothing mattered. 
Grief of grief has drained me clean; 
Still it seems a pity 
No one saw,&mdash;it must have been 
Very pretty.
 II 
Let the little birds sing; 
Let the little lambs play; 
Spring is here; and so 'tis spring;&mdash; 
But not in the old way! 
I recall a place 
Where a plum-tree grew; 
There you lifted up your face, 
And blossoms covered you. 
If the little birds sing, 
And the little lambs play, 
Spring is here; and so 'tis spring&mdash; 
But not in the old way!
 III 
All the dog-wood blossoms are underneath the tree! 
Ere spring was going&mdash;ah, spring is gone! 
And there comes no summer to the like of you and me,&mdash; 
Blossom time is early, but no fruit sets on. 
All the dog-wood blossoms are underneath the tree, 
Browned at the edges, turned in a day; 
And I would with all my heart they trimmed a mound for me, 
 And weeds were tall on all the paths that led that way! 
Thursday 
And if I loved you Wednesday, 
Well, what is that to you? 
I do not love you Thursday So 
much is true. 
And why you come complaining 
Is more than I can see. 
I loved you Wednesday, - yes -but what 
Is that to me? 
To A Poet That Died Young 
Minstrel, what have you to do 
With this man that, after you, 
Sharing not your happy fate, 
Sat as England's Laureate? 
Vainly, in these iron days, 
Strives the poet in your praise, 
Minstrel, by whose singing side 
Beauty walked, until you died. 
Still, though none should hark again, 
Drones the blue-fly in the pane, 
Thickly crusts the blackest moss, 
Blows the rose its musk across, 
Floats the boat that is forgot 
None the less to Camelot. 
Many a bard's untimely death 
Lends unto his verses breath; 
Here's a song was never sung: 
Growing old is dying young. 
Minstrel, what is this to you: 
That a man you never knew, 
When your grave was far and green, 
Sat and gossipped with a queen? 
Thalia knows how rare a thing 
Is it, to grow old and sing; 
When a brown and tepid tide 
Closes in on every side. 
Who shall say if Shelley's gold 
Had withstood it to grow old? 
To A Young Poet 
Time cannot break the bird's wing from the bird. 
Bird and wing together 
Go down, one feather. 
No thing that ever flew, 
Not the lark, not you, 
Can die as others do. 
To Kathleen 
Still must the poet as of old, 
In barren attic bleak and cold, 
Starve, freeze, and fashion verses to 
Such things as flowers and song and you; 
Still as of old his being give 
In Beauty's name, while she may live, 
Beauty that may not die as long 
As there are flowers and you and song. 
To The Not Impossible Him 
How shall I know, unless I go 
To Cairo and Cathay, 
Whether or not this blessed spot 
Is blest in every way? 
Now it may be, the flower for me 
Is this beneath my nose: 
How shall I tell, unless I smell 
The Carthaginian rose? 
The fabric of my faithful love 
No power shall dim or ravel 
Whilst I stay here,&mdash;but oh, my dear, 
If I should ever travel! 
To Those Without Pity 
Cruel of heart, lay down my song, 
Your reading eyes have done me wrong, 
Not for you was the pen bitten, 
And the mind wrung, and the song written. 
Travel 
The railroad track is miles away,
 And the day is loud with voices speaking, 
Yet there isn't a train goes by all day
 But I hear its whistle shrieking. 
All night there isn't a train goes by,
 Though the night is still for sleep and dreaming, 
But I see its cinders red on the sky,
 And hear its engine steaming. 
My heart is warm with friends I make,
 And better friends I'll not be knowing; 
Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take,
 No matter where it's going. 
Two Sonnets In Memory 
(Nicola Sacco -- Bartolomeo Vanzetti) 
Executed August 23, 1927 
I 
As men have loved their lovers in times past 
And sung their wit, their virtue and their grace, 
So have we loved sweet Justice to the last, 
That now lies here in an unseemly place. 
The child will quit the cradle and grow wise 
And stare on beauty till his senses drown; 
Yet shall be seen no more by mortal eyes 
Such beauty as here walked and here went down. 
Like birds that hear the winter crying plain 
Her courtiers leave to seek the clement south; 
Many have praised her, we alone remain 
To break a fist against the lying mouth 
Of any man who says this was not so: 
Though she be dead now, as indeed we know. 
II 
Where can the heart be hidden in the ground 
And be at peace, and be at peace forever, 
Under the world, untroubled by the sound 
Of mortal tears, that cease from pouring never? 
Well for the heart, by stern compassion harried, 
If death be deeper than the churchmen say, -Gone 
from this world indeed what's graveward carried, 
And laid to rest indeed what's laid away. 
Anguish enough while yet the indignant breather 
Have blood to spurt upon the oppressor's hand; 
Who would eternal be, and hang in ether 
A stuffless ghost above his struggling land, 
Retching in vain to render up the groan 
That is not there, being aching dust's alone? 
Underground System 
Set the foot down with distrust upon the crust of the 
world&mdash;it is thin. 
Moles are at work beneath us; they have tunneled the 
sub-soil 
With separate chambers; which at an appointed knock 
Could be as one, could intersect and interlock. We walk 
on the skin 
Of life. No toil 
Of rake or hoe, no lime, no phosphate, no rotation of 
crops, no irrigation of the land, 
Will coax the limp and flattened grain to stand 
On that bad day, or feed to strength the nibbled root's of 
our nation. 
Ease has demoralized us, nearly so, we know 
Nothing of the rigours of winter: The house has a roof 
against&mdash;the car a top against&mdash;the snow. 
All will be well, we say, it is a bit, like the rising of the 
sun, 
For our country to prosper; who can prevail against us? 
No one. 
The house has a roof; but the boards of its floor are 
rotting, and hall upon hall 
The moles have built their palace beneath us, we have 
not far to fall. 
We Talk Of Taxes... 
We talk of taxes, and I call you friend; 
Well, such you are, -- but well enough we know 
How thick about us root, how rankly grow 
Those subtle weeds no man has need to tend, 
That flourish through neglect, and soon must send 
Perfume too sweet upon us and overthrow 
Our steady senses; how such matters go 
We are aware, and how such matters end. 
Yet shall be told no meagre passion here; 
With lovers such as we forevermore 
Isolde drinks the draught, and Guinevere 
Receives the Table's ruin through her door, 
Francesca, with the loud surf at her ear, 
Lets fall the coloured book upon the floor. 
What Lips My Lips Have Kissed, And Where, And Why 
(Sonnet Xliii) 
What lips my lips have kissed, and where, and why, 
I have forgotten, and what arms have lain 
Under my head till morning; but the rain 
Is full of ghosts tonight, that tap and sigh 
Upon the glass and listen for reply, 
And in my heart there stirs a quiet pain 
For unremembered lads that not again 
Will turn to me at midnight with a cry. 
Thus in winter stands the lonely tree, 
Nor knows what birds have vanished one by one, 
Yet knows its boughs more silent than before: 
I cannot say what loves have come and gone, 
I only know that summer sang in me 
A little while, that in me sings no more. 
When I Too Long Have Looked Upon Your Face 
When I too long have looked upon your face, 
Wherein for me a brightness unobscured 
Save by the mists of brightness has its place, 
And terrible beauty not to be endured, 
I turn away reluctant from your light, 
And stand irresolute, a mind undone, 
A silly, dazzled thing deprived of sight 
From having looked too long upon the sun. 
Then is my daily life a narrow room 
In which a little while, uncertainly, 
Surrounded by impenetrable gloom, 
Among familiar things grown strange to me 
Making my way, I pause, and feel, and hark, 
Till I become accustomed to the dark. 
When The Year Grows Old 
I cannot but remember 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When the year grows old -October 
-- November -&
nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;How she disliked the cold! 
She used to watch the swallows 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Go down across the sky, 
And turn from the window 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;With a little sharp sigh. 
And often when the brown leaves 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Were brittle on the ground, 
And the wind in the chimney 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Made a melancholy sound, 
She had a look about her 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;That I wish I could forget -The 
look of a scared thing 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sitting in a net! 
Oh, beautiful at nightfall 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The soft spitting snow! 
And beautiful the bare boughs 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Rubbing to and fro! 
But the roaring of the fire, 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And the warmth of fur, 
And the boiling of the kettle 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Were beautiful to her! 
I cannot but remember 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When the year grows old -October 
-- November -&
nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;How she disliked the cold! 
When We Are Old And These Rejoicing Veins 
When we are old and these rejoicing veins 
Are frosty channels to a muted stream, 
And out of all our burning their remains 
No feeblest spark to fire us, even in dream, 
This be our solace: that it was not said 
When we were young and warm and in our prime, 
Upon our couch we lay as lie the dead, 
Sleeping away the unreturning time. 
O sweet, O heavy-lidded, O my love, 
When morning strikes her spear upon the land, 
And we must rise and arm us and reprove 
The insolent daylight with a steady hand, 
Be not discountenanced if the knowing know 
We rose from rapture but an hour ago. 
Whereas At Morning In A Jeweled Crown 
Whereas at morning in a Jeweled Crown 
I bit my fingers and was hard to please, 
Having shook disaster till the fruit fell down 
I feel tonight more happy and at ease: 
Feet running in the corridors, men quick&mdash; 
Buckling their sword-belts, bumping down the stair, 
Challenge, and rattling bridge-chain, and the click 
Of hooves on pavement&mdash;this will clear the air. 
Private this chamber as it has not been 
In many a month of muffled hours; almost, 
Lulled by the uproar, I could lie serene 
And sleep, until all's won, until all's lost, 
And the door's opened and the issue shown, 
And I walk forth Hell's Mistress&mdash;or my own. 
Wild Swans 
I looked in my heart while the wild swans went over. 
And what did I see I had not seen before? 
Only a question less or a question more: 
Nothing to match the flight of wild birds flying. 
Tiresome heart, forever living and dying, 
House without air, I leave you and lock your door. 
Wild swans, come over the town, come over 
The town again, trailing your legs and crying! 
Witch-Wife 
She is neither pink nor pale, 
And she never will be all mine; 
She learned her hands in a fairy-tale, 
And her mouth on a valentine. 
She has more hair than she needs; 
In the sun 'tis a woe to me! 
And her voice is a string of coloured beads, 
Or steps leading into the sea. 
She loves me all that she can, 
And her ways to my ways resign; 
But she was not made for any man, 
And she never will be all mine. 
Wraith 
"Thin Rain, whom are you haunting, 
That you haunt my door?" 
&mdash;Surely it is not I she's wanting; 
Someone living here before&mdash; 
"Nobody's in the house but me: 
You may come in if you like and see." 
Thin as thread, with exquisite fingers,&mdash; 
Have you seen her, any of you?&mdash; 
Grey shawl, and leaning on the wind, 
And the garden showing through? 
Glimmering eyes,&mdash;and silent, mostly, 
Sort of a whisper, sort of a purr, 
Asking something, asking it over, 
If you get a sound from her.&mdash; 
Ever see her, any of you?&mdash; 
Strangest thing I've ever known,&mdash; 
Every night since I moved in, 
And I came to be alone. 
"Thin Rain, hush with your knocking! 
You may not come in! 
This is I that you hear rocking; 
Nobody's with me, nor has been!" 
Curious, how she tried the window,&mdash; 
Odd, the way she tries the door,&mdash; 
Wonder just what sort of people 
Could have had this house before . . . 
