A Grave 
Man looking into the sea, 
taking the view from those who have as much right to it as 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;you have to it yourself, 
it is human nature to stand in the middle of a thing, 
but you cannot stand in the middle of this; 
the sea has nothing to give but a well excavated grave. 
The firs stand in a procession, each with an emerald turkey&
nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;foot at the top, 
reserved as their contours, saying nothing; 
repression, however, is not the most obvious characteristic of 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;the sea; 
the sea is a collector, quick to return a rapacious look. 
There are others besides you who have worn that look -whose 
expression is no longer a protest; the fish no longer 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;investigate them 
for their bones have not lasted: 
men lower nets, unconscious of the fact that they are 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;desecrating a grave, 
and row quickly away -- the blades of the oars 
moving together like the feet of water-spiders as if there were 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;no such thing as death. 
The wrinkles progress among themselves in a phalanx -- beautiful 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;under networks of foam, 
and fade breathlessly while the sea rustles in and out of the 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;seaweed; 
the birds swim throught the air at top speed, emitting cat-calls 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;as heretofore -the 
tortoise-shell scourges about the feet of the cliffs, in motion 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;beneath them; 
and the ocean, under the pulsation of lighthouses and noise of 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;bell-buoys, 
advances as usual, looking as if it were not that ocean in which 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;dropped things are bound to sink -in 
which if they turn and twist, it is neither with volition nor 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;consciousness. 
An Octopus 
of ice. Deceptively reserved and flat, 
it lies 'in grandeur and in mass' 
beneath a sea of shifting snow-dunes; 
dots of cyclamen-red and maroon on its clearly defined 
pseudo-podia 
made of glass that will bend–a much needed invention– 
comprising twenty-eight ice-fields from fifty to five hundred 
feet thick, 
of unimagined delicacy. 
'Picking periwinkles from the cracks' 
or killing prey with the concentric crushing rigor of the python, 
it hovers forward 'spider fashion 
on its arms' misleading like lace; 
its 'ghostly pallor changing 
to the green metallic tinge of an anemone-starred pool.' 
The fir-trees, in 'the magnitude of their root systems,' 
rise aloof from these maneuvers 'creepy to behold,' 
austere specimens of our American royal families, 
'each like the shadow of the one beside it. 
The rock seems frail compared with the dark energy of life,' 
its vermilion and onyx and manganese-blue interior expensiveness 
left at the mercy of the weather; 
'stained transversely by iron where the water drips down,' 
recognized by its plants and its animals. 
Completing a circle, 
you have been deceived into thinking that you have progressed, 
under the polite needles of the larches 
'hung to filter, not to intercept the sunlight'– 
met by tightly wattled spruce-twigs 
'conformed to an edge like clipped cypress 
as if no branch could penetrate the cold beyond its company'; 
and dumps of gold and silver ore enclosing The Goat’s Mirror– 
that lady-fingerlike depression in the shape of the left human 
foot, 
which prejudices you in favor of itself 
before you have had time to see the others; 
its indigo, pea-green, blue-green, and turquoise, 
from a hundred to two hundred feet deep, 
'merging in irregular patches in the middle of the lake 
where, like gusts of a storm 
obliterating the shadows of the fir-trees, the wind makes lanes 
of ripples.' 
What spot could have merits of equal importance 
for bears, elks, deer, wolves, goats, and ducks? 
Pre-empted by their ancestors, 
this is the property of the exacting porcupine, 
and of the rat 'slipping along to its burrow in the swamp 
or pausing on high ground to smell the heather'; 
of 'thoughtful beavers 
making drains which seem the work of careful men with shovels,' 
and of the bears inspecting unexpectedly 
ant-hills and berry-bushes. 
Composed of calcium gems and alabaster pillars, 
topaz, tourmaline crystals and amethyst quartz, 
their den in somewhere else, concealed in the confusion 
of 'blue forests thrown together with marble and jasper and agate 
as if the whole quarries had been dynamited.' 
And farther up, in a stag-at-bay position 
as a scintillating fragment of these terrible stalagmites, 
stands the goat, 
its eye fixed on the waterfall which never seems to fall– 
an endless skein swayed by the wind, 
immune to force of gravity in the perspective of the peaks. 
A special antelope 
acclimated to 'grottoes from which issue penetrating draughts 
which make you wonder why you came,' 
it stands it ground 
on cliffs the color of the clouds, of petrified white vapor– 
black feet, eyes, nose, and horns, engraved on dazzling ice-fields, 
the ermine body on the crystal peak; 
the sun kindling its shoulders to maximum heat like acetylene, 
dyeing them white– 
upon this antique pedestal, 
'a mountain with those graceful lines which prove it a volcano,' 
its top a complete cone like Fujiyama’s 
till an explosion blew it off. 
Distinguished by a beauty 
of which 'the visitor dare never fully speak at home 
for fear of being stoned as an impostor,' 
Big Snow Mountain is the home of a diversity of creatures: 
those who 'have lived in hotels 
but who now live in camps–who prefer to'; 
the mountain guide evolving from the trapper, 
'in two pairs of trousers, the outer one older, 
wearing slowly away from the feet to the knees'; 
'the nine-striped chipmunk 
running with unmammal-like agility along a log'; 
the water ouzel 
with 'its passion for rapids and high-pressured falls,' 
building under the arch of some tiny Niagara; 
the white-tailed ptarmigan 'in winter solid white, 
feeding on heather-bells and alpine buckwheat'; 
and the eleven eagles of the west, 
'fond of the spring fragrance and the winter colors,' 
used to the unegoistic action of the glaciers 
and 'several hours of frost every midsummer night.' 
'They make a nice appearance, don’t they,' 
happy see nothing? 
Perched on treacherous lava and pumice– 
those unadjusted chimney-pots and cleavers 
which stipulate 'names and addresses of persons to notify 
in case of disaster'– 
they hear the roar of ice and supervise the water 
winding slowly through the cliffs, 
the road 'climbing like the thread 
which forms the groove around a snail-shell, 
doubling back and forth until where snow begins, it ends.' 
No 'deliberate wide-eyed wistfulness' is here 
among the boulders sunk in ripples and white water 
where 'when you hear the best wild music of the forest 
it is sure to be a marmot,' 
the victim on some slight observatory, 
of 'a struggle between curiosity and caution,' 
inquiring what has scared it: 
a stone from the moraine descending in leaps, 
another marmot, or the spotted ponies with glass eyes, 
brought up on frosty grass and flowers 
and rapid draughts of ice-water. 
Instructed none knows how, to climb the mountain, 
by business men who require for recreation 
three hundred and sixty-five holidays in the year, 
these conspicuously spotted little horses are peculiar; 
hard to discern among the birch-trees, ferns, and lily-pads, 
avalanche lilies, Indian paint-brushes, 
bear’s ears and kittentails, 
and miniature cavalcades of chlorophylless fungi 
magnified in profile on the moss-beds like moonstones in the water; 
the cavalcade of calico competing 
with the original American menagerie of styles 
among the white flowers of the rhododendron surmounting 
rigid leaves 
upon which moisture works its alchemy, 
transmuting verdure into onyx. 
'Like happy souls in Hell,' enjoying mental difficulties, 
the Greeks 
amused themselves with delicate behavior 
because it was 'so noble and fair'; 
not practised in adapting their intelligence 
to eagle-traps and snow-shoes, 
to alpenstocks and other toys contrived by those 
'alive to the advantage of invigorating pleasures.' 
Bows, arrows, oars, and paddles, for which trees provide the 
wood, 
in new countries more eloquent than elsewhere– 
augmenting the assertion that, essentially humane, 
'the forest affords wood for dwellings and by its beauty 
stimulates the moral vigor of its citizens.' 
The Greeks liked smoothness, distrusting what was back 
of what could not be clearly seen, 
resolving with benevolent conclusiveness, 
'complexities which still will be complexities 
as long as the world lasts'; 
ascribing what we clumsily call happiness, 
to 'an accident or a quality, 
a spiritual substance or the soul itself, 
an act, a disposition, or a habit, 
or a habit infused, to which the soul has been persuaded, 
or something distinct from a habit, a power'– 
such power as Adam had and we are still devoid of. 
'Emotionally sensitive, their hearts were hard'; 
their wisdom was remote 
from that of these odd oracles of cool official sarcasm, 
upon this game preserve 
where 'guns, nets, seines, traps, and explosives, 
hired vehicles, gambling and intoxicants are prohibited; 
disobedient persons being summarily removed 
and not allowed to return without permission in writing.' 
It is self-evident 
that it is frightful to have everything afraid of one; 
that one must do as one is told 
and eat rice, prunes, dates, raisins, hardtack, and tomatoes 
this fossil flower concise without a shiver, 
intact when it is cut, 
damned for its sacrosanct remoteness– 
like Henry James 'damned by the public for decorum'; 
not decorum, but restraint; 
it is the love of doing hard things 
that rebuffed and wore them out–a public out of sympathy 
with neatness. 
Neatness of finish! Neatness of finish! 
Relentless accuracy is the nature of this octopus 
with its capacity for fact. 
'Creeping slowly as with meditated stealth, 
its arms seeming to approach from all directions,' 
it receives one under winds that 'tear the snow to bits 
and hurl it like a sandblast 
shearing off twigs and loose bark from the trees.' 
Is 'tree' the word for these things 
'flat on the ground like vines'? 
some 'bent in a half circle with branches on one side 
suggesting dust-brushes, not trees; 
some finding strength in union, forming little stunted grooves 
their flattened mats of branches shrunk in trying to escape' 
from the hard mountain 'planned by ice and polished by the wind'– 
the white volcano with no weather side; 
the lightning flashing at its base, 
rain falling in the valleys, and snow falling on the peak– 
the glassy octopus symmetrically pointed, 
its claw cut by the avalanche 
'with a sound like the crack of a rifle, 
in a curtain of powdered snow launched like a waterfall.' 
Appellate Jurisdiction 
Fragments of sin are a part of me. 
New brooms shall sweep clean the heart of me. 
Shall they? Shall they? 
When this light life shall have passed away, 
God shall redeem me, a castaway. 
Shall He? Shall He? 
Baseball And Writing 
Fanaticism?ng is exciting 
and baseball is like writing. 
You can never tell with either 
how it will go 
or what you will do; 
generating excitement-a 
fever in the victim-pitcher, 
catcher, fielder, batter. 
Victim in what category? 
Owlman watching from the press box? 
To whom does it apply? 
Who is excited?Might it be I? 
It's a pitcher's battle all the way--a duel-a 
catcher's, as, with cruel 
puma paw, Elston Howard lumbers lightly 
back to plate.(His spring 
de-winged a bat swing.) 
They have that killer instinct; 
yet Elston--whose catching 
arm has hurt them all with the bat-when 
questioned, says, unenviously, 
"I'm very won." 
Shorn of the batting crown, says, "We"; 
robbed by a technicality. 
When three players on a side play three positions 
and modify conditions, 
the massive run need not be everything. 
"Going, going . . . "Is 
has it, running will 
never see a finer . . . 
"Mickey, leaping like the devil"--why 
gild it, although deer sounds better-snares 
what was speeding towards its treetop nest, 
one-handing the souvenir-to-be 
meant to be caught by you or me. 
Assign Yogi Berra to Cape Canaveral; 
he could handle any missile. 
He is no feather."Strike! . . . Strike two!" 
Fouled back.A blur. 
It's would infer 
that the bat had eyes. 
He put the wood to that one. 
Praised, Skowron says, "Thanks, Mel. 
I think I helped a little bit." 
All business, each, and modesty. 
Blanchard, Richardson, Kubek, Boyer. 
In that galaxy of nine, say which 
won the pennant?Each.It was he. 
Those two magnificent saves from the knee-throws 
by Boyer, finesses in twos-like 
Whitey's three kinds of pitch and prediagnosis 
with pick-off psychosis. 
Pitching is a large subject. 
Your arm, too true at first, can learn to 
catch your corners--even trouble 
Mickey Mantle.("Grazed a Yankee! 
My baby pitcher, Montejo!" 
With some pedagogy, 
you'll be tough, premature prodigy.) 
They crowd him and curve him and aim for the g 
indeed!The secret implying: 
"I can stand here, bat held steady." 
One may suit him; 
none has hit him. 
Imponderables smite him. 
Muscle kinks, infections, spike wounds 
require food, rest, respite from ruffians.(Drat it! 
Celebrity costs privacy!) 
Cow's milk, "tiger's milk," soy milk, carrot juice, 
brewer's yeast (high-potency-concentrates 
presage victory 
sped by Luis Arroyo, Hector Lopez-deadly 
in a "Yes, 
it's work; I want you to bear down, 
but enjoy it 
while you're doing it." 
Mr. Houk and Mr. Sain, 
if you have a rummage sale, 
don't sell Roland Sheldon or Tom Tresh. 
Studded with stars in belt and crown, 
the Stadium is an adastrium. 
O flashing Orion, 
your stars are muscled like the lion. 
He "Digesteth Harde Yron" 
Although the aepyornis 
or roc that lived in Madagascar, and 
the moa are extinct, 
the camel-sparrow, linked 
with them in size--the large sparrow 
Xenophon saw walking by a stream--was and is 
a symbol of justice. 
This bird watches his chicks with 
a maternal concentration-and he's 
been mothering the eggs 
at night six weeks--his legs 
their only weapon of defense. 
He is swifter than a horse; he has a foot hard 
as a hoof; the leopard 
is not more 
could he, prized for plumes and eggs and young 
used even as a riding-beast, respect men 
hiding actor-like in ostrich skins, with the right hand 
making the neck move as if alive 
and from a bag the left hand strewing grain, that ostriches 
might be decoyed and killed!Yes, this is he 
whose plume was anciently 
the plume of justice; he 
whose comic duckling head on its 
great neck revolves with compass-needle nervousness 
when he stands guard, 
in S-like foragings as he is 
preening the down on his leaden-skinned back. 
The egg piously shown 
as Leda's very own 
from which Castor and Pollux hatched, 
was an what could have been more fit 
for the Chinese lawn it 
grazed on as a gift to an 
emperor who admired strange birds, than this 
one, who builds his mud-made 
nest in dust yet will wade 
in lake or sea till only the head shows. 
.	.	.	.	.	.	. 
Six hundred ostrich-brains served 
at one banquet, the ostrich-plume-tipped tent 
and desert spear, jewel-
gorgeous ugly egg-shell 
goblets, eight pairs of ostriches 
in harness, dramatize a meaning 
always missed by the externalist. 
The power of the visible 
is the invisible; as even where 
no tree of freedom grows, 
so-called brute courage knows. 
Heroism is exhausting, yet 
it contradicts a greed that did not wisely spare 
the harmless solitaire 
or great auk in its grandeur; 
unsolicitude having swallowed up 
all giant birds but an alert gargantuan 
little-winged, magnificently speedy running-bird. 
This one remaining rebel 
is the sparrow-camel. 
He Made This Screen 
not of silver nor of coral, 
but of weatherbeaten laurel. 
Here, he introduced a sea 
uniform like tapestry; 
here, a fig-tree; there, a face; 
there, a dragon circling space -
designating here, a bower; 
there, a pointed passion-flower. 
His Shield 
The pin-swin or spine-swine 
(the edgehog miscalled hedgehog) with all his edges out, 
echidna and echinoderm in distressed-
pin-cushion thorn-fur coats, the spiny pig or porcupine, 
the rhino with horned snout– 
everything is battle-dressed. 
Pig-fur won’t do, I’ll wrap 
myself in salamander-skin like Presbyter John. 
A lizard in the midst of flames, a firebrand 
that is life, asbestos-eyed asbestos-eared, with tattooed nap 
and permanent pig on 
the instep; he can withstand 
fire and won’t drown. In his 
unconquerable country of unpompous gusto, 
gold was so common none considered it; greed 
and flattery were unknown. Though rubies large as tennis-
balls conjoined in streams so 
that the mountain seemed to bleed, 
the inextinguishable 
salamander styled himself but presbyter. His shield 
was his humility. In Carpasian 
linen coat, flanked by his household lion-cubs and sable 
retinue, he revealed 
a formula safer than 
an armorer’s: the power of relinquishing 
what one would keep; that is freedom. Become dinosaur-
skulled, quilled or salamander-wooled, more ironshod 
and javelin-dressed than a hedgehog battalion of steel, but be 
dull. Don’t be envied or 
armed with a measuring rod. 
Marriage 
This institution, 
perhaps one should say enterprise 
out of respect for which 
one says one need not change one's mind 
about a thing one has believed in, 
requiring public promises 
of one's intention 
to fulfill a private obligation: 
I wonder what Adam and Eve 
think of it by this time, 
this firegilt steel 
alive with goldenness; 
how bright it shows -"
of circular traditions and impostures, 
committing many spoils," 
requiring all one's criminal ingenuity 
to avoid! 
Psychology which explains everything 
explains nothing 
and we are still in doubt. 
Eve: beautiful woman -I 
have seen her 
when she was so handsome 
she gave me a start, 
able to write simultaneously 
in three languages -English, 
German and French 
and talk in the meantime; 
equally positive in demanding a commotion 
and in stipulating quiet: 
"I should like to be alone;" 
to which the visitor replies, 
"I should like to be alone; 
why not be alone together?" 
Below the incandescent stars 
below the incandescent fruit, 
the strange experience of beauty; 
its existence is too much; 
it tears one to pieces 
and each fresh wave of consciousness 
is poison. 
"See her, see her in this common world," 
the central flaw 
in that first crystal-fine experiment, 
this amalgamation which can never be more 
than an interesting possibility, 
describing it 
as "that strange paradise 
unlike flesh, gold, or stately buildings, 
the choicest piece of my life: 
the heart rising 
in its estate of peace 
as a boat rises 
with the rising of the water;" 
constrained in speaking of the serpent -that 
shed snakeskin in the history of politeness 
not to be returned to again -that 
invaluable accident 
exonerating Adam. 
And he has beauty also; 
it's distressing -- the O thou 
to whom, from whom, 
without whom nothing -- Adam; 
"something feline, 
something colubrine" -- how true! 
a crouching mythological monster 
in that Persian miniature of emerald mines, 
raw silk -- ivory white, snow white, 
oyster white and six others -that 
paddock full of leopards and giraffes -long 
lemonyellow bodies 
sown with trapezoids of blue. 
Alive with words, 
vibrating like a cymbal 
touched before it has been struck, 
he has prophesied correctly -the 
industrious waterfall, 
"the speedy stream 
which violently bears all before it, 
at one time silent as the air 
and now as powerful as the wind." 
"Treading chasms 
on the uncertain footing of a spear," 
forgetting that there is in woman 
a quality of mind 
which is an instinctive manifestation 
is unsafe, 
he goes on speaking 
in a formal, customary strain 
of "past states," the present state, 
seals, promises, 
the evil one suffered, 
the good one enjoys, 
hell, heaven, 
everything convenient 
to promote one's joy." 
There is in him a state of mind 
by force of which, 
perceiving what it was not 
intended that he should, 
"he experiences a solemn joy 
in seeing that he has become an idol." 
Plagued by the nightingale 
in the new leaves, 
with its silence -not 
its silence but its silences, 
he says of it: 
"It clothes me with a shirt of fire." 
"He dares not clap his hands 
to make it go on 
lest it should fly off; 
if he does nothing, it will sleep; 
if he cries out, it will not understand." 
Unnerved by the nightingale 
and dazzled by the apple, 
impelled by "the illusion of a fire 
effectual to extinguish fire," 
compared with which 
the shining of the earth 
is but deformity -- a fire 
"as high as deep as bright as broad 
as long as life itself," 
he stumbles over marriage, 
"a very trivial object indeed" 
to have destroyed the attitude 
in which he stood -the 
ease of the philosopher 
unfathered by a woman. 
Unhelpful Hymen! 
"a kind of overgrown cupid" 
reduced to insignificance 
by the mechanical advertising 
parading as involuntary comment, 
by that experiment of Adam's 
with ways out but no way in -the 
ritual of marriage, 
augmenting all its lavishness; 
its fiddle-head ferns, 
lotus flowers, opuntias, white dromedaries, 
its hippopotamus -nose 
and mouth combined 
in one magnificent hopper, 
"the crested screamer -that 
huge bird almost a lizard," 
its snake and the potent apple. 
He tells us 
that "for love 
that will gaze an eagle blind, 
that is like a Hercules 
climbing the trees 
in the garden of the Hesperides, 
from forty-five to seventy 
is the best age," 
commending it 
as a fine art, as an experiment, 
a duty or as merely recreation. 
One must not call him ruffian 
nor friction a calamity -the 
fight to be affectionate: 
"no truth can be fully known 
until it has been tried 
by the tooth of disputation." 
The blue panther with black eyes, 
the basalt panther with blue eyes, 
entirely graceful -
one must give them the path -the 
black obsidian Diana 
who "darkeneth her countenance 
as a bear doth, 
causing her husband to sigh," 
the spiked hand 
that has an affection for one 
and proves it to the bone, 
impatient to assure you 
that impatience is the mark of independence 
not of bondage. 
"Married people often look that way" -"
seldom and cold, up and down, 
mixed and malarial 
with a good day and bad." 
"When do we feed?" 
We occidentals are so unemotional, 
we quarrel as we feed; 
one's self is quite lost, 
the irony preserved 
in "the Ahasuerus tête à tête banquet" 
with its "good monster, lead the way," 
with little laughter 
and munificence of humor 
in that quixotic atmosphere of frankness 
in which "Four o'clock does not exist 
but at five o'clock 
the ladies in their imperious humility 
are ready to receive you"; 
in which experience attests 
that men have power 
and sometimes one is made to feel it. 
He says, "what monarch would not blush 
to have a wife 
with hair like a shaving-brush? 
The fact of woman 
is not `the sound of the flute 
but every poison.'" 
She says, "`Men are monopolists 
of stars, garters, buttons 
and other shining baubles' -unfit 
to be the guardians 
of another person's happiness." 
He says, "These mummies 
must be handled carefully -`
the crumbs from a lion's meal, 
a couple of shins and the bit of an ear'; 
turn to the letter M 
and you will find 
that `a wife is a coffin,' 
that severe object 
with the pleasing geometry 
stipulating space and not people, 
refusing to be buried 
and uniquely disappointing, 
revengefully wrought in the attitude 
of an adoring child 
to a distinguished parent." 
She says, "This butterfly, 
this waterfly, this nomad 
that has `proposed 
to settle on my hand for life.' -What 
can one do with it? 
There must have been more time 
in Shakespeare's day 
to sit and watch a play. 
You know so many artists are fools." 
He says, "You know so many fools 
who are not artists." 
The fact forgot 
that "some have merely rights 
while some have obligations," 
he loves himself so much, 
he can permit himself 
no rival in that love. 
She loves herself so much, 
she cannot see herself enough -a 
statuette of ivory on ivory, 
the logical last touch 
to an expansive splendor 
earned as wages for work done: 
one is not rich but poor 
when one can always seem so right. 
What can one do for them -
these savages 
condemned to disaffect 
all those who are not visionaries 
alert to undertake the silly task 
of making people noble? 
This model of petrine fidelity 
who "leaves her peaceful husband 
only because she has seen enough of him" -that 
orator reminding you, 
"I am yours to command." 
"Everything to do with love is mystery; 
it is more than a day's work 
to investigate this science." 
One sees that it is rare -that 
striking grasp of opposites 
opposed each to the other, not to unity, 
which in cycloid inclusiveness 
has dwarfed the demonstration 
of Columbus with the egg -a 
triumph of simplicity -that 
charitive Euroclydon 
of frightening disinterestedness 
which the world hates, 
admitting: 
"I am such a cow, 
if I had a sorrow, 
I should feel it a long time; 
I am not one of those 
who have a great sorrow 
in the morning 
and a great joy at noon;" 
which says: "I have encountered it 
among those unpretentious 
protegés of wisdom, 
where seeming to parade 
as the debater and the Roman, 
the statesmanship 
of an archaic Daniel Webster 
persists to their simplicity of temper 
as the essence of the matter: 
`Liberty and union 
now and forever;' 
the book on the writing-table; 
the hand in the breast-pocket." 
Nevertheless 
you've seen a strawberry 
that's had a struggle; yet 
was, where the fragments met, 
a hedgehog or a starfish 
for the multitude 
of seeds. What better food 
than apple seeds - the fruit 
within the fruit - locked in 
like counter-curved twin 
hazelnuts? Frost that kills 
the little rubber-plant leaves 
of kok-sagyyz-stalks, can't 
harm the roots; they still grow 
in frozen ground. Once where 
there was a prickley-pear 
leaf clinging to a barbed wire, 
a root shot down to grow 
in earth two feet below; 
as carrots from mandrakes 
or a ram's-horn root sometimes. 
Victory won't come 
to me unless I go 
to it; a grape tendril 
ties a knot in knots till 
knotted thirty times - so 
the bound twig that's undergone 
and over-gone, can't stir. 
The weak overcomes its 
menace, the strong overcomes 
itself. What is there 
like fortitude! What sap 
went through that little thread 
to make the cherry red! 
Nine Nectarines And Other Porcelain 
Arranged by two's as peaches are, 
at intervals that all may live— 
eight and a single one, on twigs that 
grew the year before—they look like 
a derivative; 
although not uncommonly 
the opposite is seen— 
nine peaches on a nectarine. 
Fuzzless through slender crescent leaves 
of green or blue or 
both, in the Chinese style, the four 
pairs' half-moon leaf-mosaic turns 
out to the sun the sprinkled blush 
of puce-American-Beauty pink 
applied to bees-wax gray by the 
uninquiring brush 
of mercantile bookbinding. 
Like the peach Yu , the red-
cheeked peach which cannot aid the dead, 
but eaten in time prevents death, 
'the Italian 
peach-nut, Persian plum, Ispahan 
secluded wall-grown nectarine, 
as wild spontaneous fruit was 
found in China first. But was it wild? 
Prudent de Candolle would not say. 
One perceives no flaws 
in this emblematic group 
of nine, with leaf window 
unquilted by curculio 
which someone once depicted on 
this much-mended plate 
or in the also accurate 
unantlered moose or Iceland horse 
or ass asleep against the old 
thick, low-leaning nectarine that is the 
color of the shrub-tree's brownish 
flower. 
***** 
A Chinese "understands 
the spirit of the wilderness" 
and the nectarine-loving kylin 
of pony appearance—the long-
tailed or the tailless 
small cinnamon-brown, common 
camel-haired unicorn 
with antelope feet and no horn, 
here enameled on porcelain. 
It was a Chinese 
Who imagined this masterpiece. 
No Swan So Fine 
"No water so still as the 
dead fountains of Versailles." No swan, 
with swart blind look askance 
and gondoliering legs, so fine 
as the chinz china one with fawn-
brown eyes and toothed gold 
collar on to show whose bird it was. 
Lodged in the Louis Fifteenth 
candelabrum-tree of cockscomb-
tinted buttons, dahlias, 
sea-urchins, and everlastings, 
it perches on the branching foam 
of polished sculptured 
flowers--at ease and tall. The king is dead. 
Peter 
Strong and slippery, built for the midnight grass-party confronted by four cats, 
he sleeps his time away -- the detached first claw on his foreleg which 
corresponds 
to the thumb, retracted to its tip; the small tuft of fronds 
or katydid legs above each eye, still numbering the units in each group; 
the shadbones regularly set about his mouth, to droop or rise 
in unison like the porcupine's quills -- motionless. He lets himself be flat­ 
tened out by gravity, as it were a piece of seaweed tamed and weakened by 
exposure to the sun; compelled when extended, to lie 
stationary. Sleep is the result of his delusion that one must do as 
well as one can for oneself; sleep -- epitome of what is to 
him as to the average person, the end of life. Demonstrate on him how 
the lady caught the dangerous southern snake, placing a forked stick on either 
side of its innocuous neck; one need not try to stir 
him up; his prune shaped head and alligator eyes are not a party to the 
joke. Lifted and handled, he may be dangled like an eel or set 
up on the forearm like a mouse; his eyes bisected by pupils of a pin's 
width, are flickeringly exhibited, then covered up. May be? I should say, 
might have been; when he has been got the better of in a 
dream -- as in a fight with nature or with cats -- we all know it. Profound sleep is 
not with him, a fixed illusion. Springing about with froglike ac­ 
curacy, emitting jerky cries when taken in the hand, he is himself 
again; to sit caged by the rungs of a domestic chair would be unprofit­ 
able -- human. What is the good of hypocrisy? It 
is permissible to choose one's employment, to abandon the wire nail, the 
roly-poly, when it shows signs of being no longer a pleas­ 
ure, to score the adjacent magazine with a double line of strokes. He can 
talk, but insolently says nothing. What of it? When one is frank, one's very 
presence is a compliment. It is clear that he can see 
the virtue of naturalness, that he is one of those who do not regard 
the published fact as a surrender. As for the disposition 
invariably to affront, an animal with claws wants to have to use 
them; that eel-like extension of trunk into tail is not an accident. To 
leap, to lengthen out, divide the air -- to purloin, to pursue. 
to tell the hen: fly over the fence, go in the wrong way -- in your perturba­ 
tion -- this is life; to do less would be nothing but dishonesty. 
Poetry 
I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all 
this fiddle. 
Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one 
discovers in 
it after all, a place for the genuine. 
Hands that can grasp, eyes 
that can dilate, hair that can rise 
if it must, these things are important not because a 
high-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because 
they are 
useful. When they become so derivative as to become 
unintelligible, 
the same thing may be said for all of us, that we 
do not admire what 
we cannot understand: the bat 
holding on upside down or in quest of something to 
eat, elephants pushing, a wild horse taking a roll, a tireless wolf 
under 
a tree, the immovable critic twitching his skin like a horse that 
feels a 
flea, the baseball 
fan, the statistician-nor 
is it valid 
to discriminate against 'business documents and 
school-books'; all these phenomena are important. One must 
make a distinction 
however: when dragged into prominence by half poets, the 
result is not poetry, 
nor till the poets among us can be 
'literalists of 
the imagination'--above 
insolence and triviality and can present 
for inspection, 'imaginary gardens with real toads in them', shall 
we have 
it. In the meantime, if you demand on the one hand, 
the raw material of poetry in 
all its rawness and 
that which is on the other hand 
genuine, you are interested in poetry. 
Rosemary 
Beauty and Beauty's son and rosemary Venus 
and Love, her son, to speak plainly born 
of the sea supposedly, 
at Christmas each, in company, 
braids a garland of festivity. 
Not always rosemary 
since the flight to Egypt, blooming indifferently. 
With lancelike leaf, green but silver underneath, 
its flowers - white originally turned 
blue. The herb of memory, 
imitating the blue robe of Mary, 
is not too legendary 
to flower both as symbol and as pungency. 
Springing from stones beside the sea, 
the height of Christ when he was thirty-three, 
it feeds on dew and to the bee 
"hath a dumb language"; is in reality 
a kind of Christmas tree. 
Roses Only 
You do not seem to realize that beauty is a liability rather 
than 
an asset - that in view of the fact that spirit creates form 
we are justified in supposing 
that you must have brains. For you, a symbol of the 
unit, stiff and sharp, 
conscious of surpassing by dint of native superiority and 
liking for everything 
self-dependent, anything an 
ambitious civilization might produce: for you, unaided, to 
attempt through sheer 
reserve, to confuse presumptions resulting from 
observation, is idle. You cannot make us 
think you a delightful happen-so. But rose, if you are 
brilliant, it 
is not because your petals are the without-which-nothing 
of pre-eminence. Would you not, minus 
thorns, be a what-is-this, a mere 
perculiarity? They are not proof against a worm, the 
elements, or mildew; 
but what about the predatory hand? What is brilliance 
without co-ordination? Guarding the 
infinitesimal pieces of your mind, compelling audience to 
the remark that it is better to be forgotten than to be remembered 
too violently, 
your thorns are the best part of you. 
Silence 
My father used to say, 
"Superior people never make long visits, 
have to be shown Longfellow's grave 
nor the glass flowers at Harvard. 
Self reliant like the cat -that 
takes its prey to privacy, 
the mouse's limp tail hanging like a shoelace from its mouth -they 
sometimes enjoy solitude, 
and can be robbed of speech 
by speech which has delighted them. 
The deepest feeling always shows itself in silence; 
not in silence, but restraint." 
Nor was he insincere in saying, "`Make my house your inn'." 
Inns are not residences. 
Spenser's Ireland 
has not altered; a 
place as kind as it is green, 
the greenest place I've never seen. 
Every name is a tune. 
Denunciations do not affect 
the culprit; nor blows, but it 
is torture to him to not be spoken to. 
They're natural,the 
coat, like Venus' 
mantle lined with stars, 
buttoned close at the neck,-the sleeves new from disuse. 
If in Ireland 
they play the harp backward at need, 
and gather at midday the seed 
of the fern, eluding 
their 'giants all covered with iron,' might 
there be fern seed for unlearning 
obduracy and for reinstating 
the enchantment? 
Hindered characters 
seldom have mothers 
in Irish stories, but they all have grandmothers. 
It was Irish; 
a match not a marriage was made 
when my great great grandmother'd said 
with native genius for 
disunion, 'Although your suitor be 
perfection, one objection 
is enough; he is not 
Irish.' Outwitting 
the fairies, befriending the furies, 
whoever again 
and again says, 'I'll never give in,' never sees 
that you're not free 
until you've been made captive by 
supreme belief,- credulity 
you say? When large dainty 
fingers tremblingly divide the wings 
of the fly for mid-July 
with a needle and wrap it with peacock-tail, 
or tie wool and 
buzzard's wing, their pride, 
like the enchanter's 
is in care, not madness. Concurring hands divide 
flax for damask 
that when bleached by Irish weather 
has the silvered chamois-leather 
water-tightness of a 
skin. Twisted torcs and gold new-moon-shaped 
lunulae aren't jewelry 
like the purple-coral fuchsia-tree's. Eire-
the guillemot 
so neat and the hen 
of the heath and the 
linnet spinet-sweet-bespeak relentlessness? Then 
they are to me 
like enchanted Earl Gerald who 
changed himself into a stag, to 
a great green-eyed cat of 
the mountain. Discommodity makes 
them invisible; they've disappeared. 
The Irish say your trouble is their 
trouble and your 
joy their joy? I wish 
I could believe it; 
I am troubled, I'm dissatisfied, I'm Irish. 
The Fish 
wade 
through black jade 
Of the crow-blue mussel-shells, one keeps 
adjusting the ash heaps; 
opening and shutting itself like 
an 
injured fan. 
The barnacles which encrust the side 
of the wave, cannot hide 
there for the submerged shafts of the 
sun, 
split like spun 
glass, move themselves with spotlight swiftness 
into the crevices– 
in and out, illuminating 
the 
turquoise sea 
of bodies. The water drives a wedge 
of iron through the iron edge 
of the cliff; whereupon the stars, 
pink 
rice-grains, ink-
bespattered jelly-fish, crabs like green 
lilies, and submarine 
toadstools, slide each on the other. 
All 
external 
marks of abuse are present on this 
defiant edifice– 
all the physical features of 
accident–
lack 
of cornice, dynamite grooves, burns, and 
hatchet strokes, these things stand 
out on it; the chasm-side is 
dead. 
Repeated 
evidence has proved that it can live 
on what can not revive 
its youth. The sea grows old in it. 
The Mind is a wonderful Thing 
is an enchanted thing 
like the glaze on a 
katydid-wing 
subdivided by sun 
till the nettings are legion. 
Like Giesking playing Scarltti; 
like the apteryx-awl 
as a beak, or the 
kiwi's rain-shawl 
of haired feathers, the mind 
feeling its way as though blind, 
walks along with its eyes on the ground. 
It has memory's ear 
that can hear without 
having to hear. 
Like the gyroscope's fall, 
truly equivocal 
because trued by regnant certainty, 
it is a power of strong enchantment. It 
is like the dove-
neck animated by 
sun; it is memory's eye; 
it's conscientious inconsistency. 
It tears off the veil; tears 
the temptation, the 
mist the heart wears, 
from its eyes - if the heart 
has a face; it takes apart 
dejection. It's fire in the dove-neck's 
iridescence; in the inconsistencies 
of Scarlatti. 
Unconfusion submits 
its confusion to proof; it's 
not a Herod's oath that cannot change. 
The Pangolin 
Another armored animal–scale 
lapping scale with spruce-cone regularity until they 
form the uninterrupted central 
tail row! This near artichoke with head and legs and 
grit-equipped gizzard, 
the night miniature artist engineer is, 
yes, Leonardo da Vinci’s replica– 
impressive animal and toiler of whom we seldom hear. 
Armor seems extra. But for him, 
the closing ear-ridge– 
or bare ear licking even this small 
eminence and similarly safe 
contracting nose and eye apertures 
impenetrably closable, are not;–a true ant-eater, 
not cockroach-eater, who endures 
exhausting solitary trips through unfamiliar ground at night, 
returning before sunrise; stepping in the moonlight, 
on the moonlight peculiarly, that the outside 
edges of his hands may bear the weight and save the 
claws 
for digging. Serpentined about 
the tree, he draws 
away from danger unpugnaciously, 
with no sound but a harmless hiss; keeping 
the fragile grace of the Thomas-
of-Leighton Buzzard Westminster Abbey wrought-iron 
vine, or 
rolls himself into a ball that has 
power to defy all effort to unroll it; strongly intailed, neat 
head for core, on neck not breaking off, with curled-in feet. 
Nevertheless he has sting-proof scales; and nest 
of rocks closed with earth from inside, which he can 
thus darken. 
Sun and moon and day and night and man and beast 
each with a splendor 
which man in all his vileness cannot 
set aside; each with an excellence! 
"Fearful yet to be feared," the armored 
ant-eater met by the driver-ant does not turn back, but 
engulfs what he can, the flattered sword-
edged leafpoints on the tail and artichoke set leg-and 
body-plates 
quivering violently when it retaliates 
and swarms on him. Compact like the furled fringed frill 
on the hat-brim of Gargallo’s hollow iron head of a 
matador, he will drop and will 
then walk away 
unhurt, although if unintruded on, 
he cautiously works down the tree, helped 
by his tail. The giant-pangolintail, 
graceful tool, as prop or hand or broom or ax, tipped like 
an elephant’s trunk with special skin, 
is not lost on this ant-and stone-swallowing uninjurable 
artichoke which simpletons thought a living fable 
whom the stones had nourished, whereas ants had done 
so. Pangolins are not aggressive animals; between 
dusk and day they have the not unchain-like machine-like 
form and frictionless creep of a thing 
made graceful by adversities, conversities. 
To explain grace requires 
a curious hand. If that which is at all were not forever, 
why would those who graced the spires 
with animals and gathered there to rest, on cold luxurious 
low stone seats–a monk and monk and monk–between the 
thus 
ingenious roof-supports, have slaved to confuse 
grace with a kindly manner, time in which to pay a 
debt, 
the cure for sins, a graceful use 
of what are yet 
approved stone mullions branching out across 
the perpendiculars? A sailboat 
was the first machine. Pangolins, made 
for moving quietly also, are models of exactness, 
on four legs; on hind feet plantigrade, 
with certain postures of a man. Beneath sun and moon, 
man slaving 
to make his life more sweet, leaves half the flowers worth 
having, 
needing to choose wisely how to use his strength; 
a paper-maker like the wasp; a tractor of foodstuffs, 
like the ant; spidering a length 
of web from bluffs 
above a stream; in fighting, mechanicked 
like to pangolin; capsizing in 
disheartenment. Bedizened or stark 
naked, man, the self, the being we call human, writing-
master to this world, griffons a dark 
"Like does not like like that is obnoxious"; and writes error 
with four 
r’s. Among animals, one has a sense of humor. 
Humor saves a few steps, it saves years. Uningnorant, 
modest and unemotional, and all emotion, 
he has everlasting vigor, 
power to grow, 
though there are few creatures who can make one 
breathe faster and make one erecter. 
Not afraid of anything is he, 
and then goes cowering forth, tread paced to meet an obstacle 
at every step. Consistent with the 
formula–warm blood, no gills, two pairs of hands and a few 
hairs–that 
is a mammal; there he sits in his own habitat, 
serge-clad, strong-shod. The prey of fear, he, always 
curtailed, extinguished, thwarted by the dusk, work 
partly done, 
says to the alternating blaze, 
"Again the sun! 
anew each day; and new and new and new, 
that comes into and steadies my soul." 
The Paper Nautilus 
For authorities whose hopes 
are shaped by mercenaries? 
Writers entrapped by 
teatime fame and by 
commuters' comforts? Not for these 
the paper nautilus 
constructs her thin glass shell. 
Giving her perishable 
souvenir of hope, a dull 
white outside and smooth-
edged inner surface 
glossy as the sea, the watchful 
maker of it guards it 
day and night; she scarcely 
eats until the eggs are hatched. 
Buried eight-fold in her eight 
arms, for she is in 
a sense a devil-
fish, her glass ram'shorn-cradled freight 
is hid but is not crushed; 
as Hercules, bitten 
by a crab loyal to the hydra, 
was hindered to succeed, 
the intensively 
watched eggs coming from 
the shell free it when they are freed,-leaving 
its wasp-nest flaws 
of white on white, and close-
laid Ionic chiton-folds 
like the lines in the mane of 
a Parthenon horse, 
round which the arms had 
wound themselves as if they knew love 
is the only fortress 
strong enough to trust to. 
The Past Is The Present 
If external action is effete 
and rhyme is outmoded, 
I shall revert to you, 
Habakkuk, as when in a Bible class 
the teacher was speaking of unrhymed verse. 
He said - and I think I repeat his exact words "
Hebrew poetry is prose 
with a sort of heightened consciousness." Ecstasy affords 
the occasion and expediency determines the form. 
The Steeple-Jack 
Dürer would have seen a reason for living 
in a town like this, with eight stranded whales 
to look at; with the sweet sea air coming into your house 
on a fine day, from water etched 
with waves as formal as the scales 
on a fish. 
One by one in two's and three's, the seagulls keep 
flying back and forth over the town clock, 
or sailing around the lighthouse without moving their wings -rising 
steadily with a slight 
quiver of the body -- or flock 
mewing where 
a sea the purple of the peacock's neck is 
paled to greenish azure as Dürer changed 
the pine green of the Tyrol to peacock blue and guinea 
gray. You can see a twenty-fivepound 
lobster; and fish nets arranged 
to dry. The 
whirlwind fife-and-drum of the storm bends the salt 
marsh grass, disturbs stars in the sky and the 
star on the steeple; it is a privilege to see so 
much confusion. Disguised by what 
might seem the opposite, the seaside 
flowers and 
trees are favored by the fog so that you have 
the tropics first hand: the trumpet-vine, 
fox-glove, giant snap-dragon, a salpiglossis that has 
spots and stripes; morning-glories, gourds, 
or moon-vines trained on fishing-twine 
at the back door; 
cat-tails, flags, blueberries and spiderwort, 
striped grass, lichens, sunflowers, asters, daisies -yellow 
and crab-claw ragged sailors with green bracts -- toad-plant, 
petunias, ferns; pink lilies, blue 
ones, tigers; poppies; black sweet-peas. 
The climate 
is not right for the banyan, frangipani, or 
jack-fruit trees; or for exotic serpent 
life. Ring lizard and snake-skin for the foot, if you see fit; 
but here they've cats, not cobras, to 
keep down the rats. The diffident 
little newt 
with white pin-dots on black horizontal spaced-
out bands lives here; yet there is nothing that 
ambition can buy or take away. The college student 
named Ambrose sits on the hillside 
with his not-native books and hat 
and sees boats 
at sea progress white and rigid as if in 
a groove. Liking an elegance of which 
the sourch is not bravado, he knows by heart the antique 
sugar-bowl shaped summer-house of 
interlacing slats, and the pitch 
of the church 
spire, not true, from which a man in scarlet lets 
down a rope as a spider spins a thread; 
he might be part of a novel, but on the sidewalk a 
sign says C. J. Poole, Steeple Jack, 
in black and white; and one in red 
and white says 
Danger. The church portico has four fluted 
columns, each a single piece of stone, made 
modester by white-wash. Theis would be a fit haven for 
waifs, children, animals, prisoners, 
and presidents who have repaid 
sin-driven 
senators by not thinking about them. The 
place has a school-house, a post-office in a 
store, fish-houses, hen-houses, a three-masted schooner on 
the stocks. The hero, the student, 
the steeple-jack, each in his way, 
is at home. 
It could not be dangerous to be living 
in a town like this, of simple people, 
who have a steeple-jack placing danger signs by the church 
while he is gilding the solid-
pointed star, which on a steeple 
stands for hope. 
To A Steam Roller 
The illustration 
is nothing to you without the application. 
You lack half wit. You crush all the particles down 
into close conformity, and then walk back and forth on them. 
Sparkling chips of rock 
are crushed down to the level of the parent block. 
Were not 'impersonal judment in aesthetic 
matters, a metaphysical impossibility,' you 
might fairly achieve 
it. As for butterflies, I can hardly conceive 
of one's attending upon you, but to question 
the congruence of the complement is vain, if it exists. 
To An Intra-Mural Rat 
You make me think of many men 
Once met, to be forgot again 
Or merely resurrected 
In a parenthesis of wit 
That found them hastening through it 
Too brisk to be inspected. 
What Are Years 
What is our innocence, 
what is our guilt? All are 
naked, none is safe. And whence 
is courage: the unanswered question, 
the resolute doubt, — 
dumbly calling, deafly listening—that 
in misfortune, even death, 
encourage others 
and in its defeat, stirs 
the soul to be strong? He 
sees deep and is glad, who 
accedes to mortality 
and in his imprisonment rises 
upon himself as 
the sea in a chasm, struggling to be 
free and unable to be, 
in its surrendering 
finds its continuing. 
So he who strongly feels, 
behaves. The very bird, 
grown taller as he sings, steels 
his form straight up. Though he is captive, 
his mighty singing 
says, satisfaction is a lowly 
thing, how pure a thing is joy. 
This is mortality, 
this is eternity. 
