I know noble accents 
And lucid, inescapable rhythms; 
But I know, too, 
That the blackbird is involved 
In what I know. 
(from Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird) 
A Disillusionment Of Ten O'Clock 
The houses are haunted 
By white night-gowns. 
None are green, 
Or purple with green rings, 
Or green with yellow rings, 
Or yellow with blue rings. 
None of them are strange, 
With socks of lace 
And beaded ceintures. 
People are not going 
To dream of baboons and periwinkles. 
Only, here and there, an old sailor, 
Drunk and asleep in his boots, 
Catches Tigers 
In red weather. 
A High-Toned Old Christian Woman 
Poetry is the supreme fiction, madame. 
Take the moral law and make a nave of it 
And from the nave build haunted heaven. Thus, 
The conscience is converted into palms, 
Like windy citherns hankering for hymns. 
We agree in principle. That's clear. But take 
The opposing law and make a peristyle, 
And from the peristyle project a masque 
Beyond the planets. Thus, our bawdiness, 
Unpurged by epitaph, indulged at last, 
Is equally converted into palms, 
Squiggling like saxophones. And palm for palm, 
Madame, we are where we began. Allow, 
Therefore, that in the planetary scene 
Your disaffected flagellants, well-stuffed, 
Smacking their muzzy bellies in parade, 
Proud of such novelties of the sublime, 
Such tink and tank and tunk-a-tunk-tunk, 
May, merely may, madame, whip from themselves 
A jovial hullabaloo among the spheres. 
This will make widows wince. But fictive things 
Wink as they will. Wink most when widows wince. 
A Postcard From The Volcano 
Children picking up our bones 
Will never know that these were once 
As quick as foxes on the hill; 
And that in autumn, when the grapes 
Made sharp air sharper by their smell 
These had a being, breathing frost; 
And least will guess that with our bones 
We left much more, left what still is 
The look of things, left what we felt 
At what we saw. The spring clouds blow 
Above the shuttered mansion house, 
Beyond our gate and the windy sky 
Cries out a literate despair. 
We knew for long the mansion's look 
And what we said of it became 
A part of what it is ... Children, 
Still weaving budded aureoles, 
Will speak our speech and never know, 
Will say of the mansion that it seems 
As if he that lived there left behind 
A spirit storming in blank walls, 
A dirty house in a gutted world, 
A tatter of shadows peaked to white, 
Smeared with the gold of the opulent sun. 
A Rabbit As King Of The Ghosts 
The difficulty to think at the end of day, 
When the shapeless shadow covers the sun 
And nothing is left except light on your fur— 
There was the cat slopping its milk all day, 
Fat cat, red tongue, green mind, white milk 
And August the most peaceful month. 
To be, in the grass, in the peacefullest time, 
Without that monument of cat, 
The cat forgotten in the moon; 
And to feel that the light is a rabbit-light, 
In which everything is meant for you 
And nothing need be explained; 
Then there is nothing to think of. It comes of itself; 
And east rushes west and west rushes down, 
No matter. The grass is full 
And full of yourself. The trees around are for you, 
The whole of the wideness of night is for you, 
A self that touches all edges, 
You become a self that fills the four corners of night. 
The red cat hides away in the fur-light 
And there you are humped high, humped up, 
You are humped higher and higher, black as stone— 
You sit with your head like a carving in space 
And the little green cat is a bug in the grass. 
Anecdote Of The Jar 
I placed a jar in Tennessee, 
And round it was, upon a hill. 
It made the slovenly wilderness 
Surround that hill. 
The wilderness rose up to it, 
And sprawled around, no longer wild. 
The jar was round upon the ground 
And tall and of a port in air. 
It took dominion everywhere. 
The jar was gray and bare. 
It did not give of bird or bush, 
Like nothing else in Tennessee. 
Another Weeping Woman 
Pour the unhappiness out 
From your too bitter heart, 
Which grieving will not sweeten. 
Poison grows in this dark. 
It is in the water of tears 
Its black blooms rise. 
The magnificent cause of being, 
The imagination, the one reality 
In this imagined world 
Leaves you 
With him for whom no phantasy moves, 
And you are pierced by a death. 
Bantams In Pine-Woods 
Chieftain Iffucan of Azcan in caftan 
Of tan with henna hackles, halt! 
Damned universal cock, as if the sun 
Was blackmoor to bear your blazing tail. 
Fat! Fat! Fat! Fat! I am the personal. 
Your world is you. I am my world. 
You ten-foot poet among inchlings. Fat! 
Begone! An inchling bristles in these pines, 
Bristles, and points their Appalachian tangs, 
And fears not portly Azcan nor his hoos. 
Continual Conversation With A Silent Man 
The old brown hen and the old blue sky, 
Between the two we live and die-The 
broken cartwheel on the hill. 
As if, in the presence of the sea, 
We dried our nets and mended sail 
And talked of never-ending things, 
Of the never-ending storm of will, 
One will and many wills, and the wind, 
Of many meanings in the leaves, 
Brought down to one below the eaves, 
Link, of that tempest, to the farm, 
The chain of the turquoise hen and sky 
And the wheel that broke as the cart went by. 
It is not a voice that is under the eaves. 
It is not speech, the sound we hear 
In this conversation, but the sound 
Of things and their motion: the other man, 
A turquoise monster moving round. 
Contrary Theses (Ii) 
One chemical afternoon in mid-autumn, 
When the grand mechanics of earth and sky were near; 
Even the leaves of the locust were yellow then, 
He walked with his year-old boy on his shoulder. 
The sun shone and the dog barked and the baby slept. 
The leaves, even of the locust, the green locust. 
He wanted and looked for a final refuge, 
From the bombastic intimations of winter 
And the martyrs a la mode. He walked toward 
An abstract, of which the sun, the dog, the boy 
Were contours. Cold was chilling the wide-moving swans. 
The leaves were falling like notes from a piano. 
The abstract was suddenly there and gone again. 
The negroes were playing football in the park. 
The abstract that he saw, like the locust-leaves, plainly: 
The premiss from which all things were conclusions, 
The noble, Alexandrine verve. The flies 
And the bees still sought the chrysanthemums’ odor. 
Disillusionment Of Ten O'Clock 
The houses are haunted 
By white night-gowns. 
None are green, 
Or purple with green rings, 
Or green with yellow rings, 
Or yellow with blue rings. 
None of them are strange, 
With socks of lace 
And beaded ceintures. 
People are not going 
To dream of baboons and periwinkles. 
Only, here and there, an old sailor, 
Drunk and asleep in his boots, 
Catches Tigers 
In red weather. 
Domination Of Black 
At night, by the fire, 
The colors of the bushes 
And of the fallen leaves, 
Repeating themselves, 
Turned in the room, 
Like the leaves themselves 
Turning in the wind. 
Yes: but the color of the heavy hemlocks 
Came striding. 
And I remembered the cry of the peacocks. 
The colors of their tails 
Were like the leaves themselves 
Turning in the wind, 
In the twilight wind. 
They swept over the room, 
Just as they flew from the boughs of the hemlocks 
Down to the ground. 
I heard them cry -- the peacocks. 
Was it a cry against the twilight 
Or against the leaves themselves 
Turning in the wind, 
Turning as the flames 
Turned in the fire, 
Turning as the tails of the peacocks 
Turned in the loud fire, 
Loud as the hemlocks 
Full of the cry of the peacocks? 
Or was it a cry against the hemlocks? 
Out of the window, 
I saw how the planets gathered 
Like the leaves themselves 
Turning in the wind. 
I saw how the night came, 
Came striding like the color of the heavy hemlocks 
I felt afraid. 
And I remembered the cry of the peacocks. 
Farewell To Florida 
I 
Go on, high ship, since now, upon the shore, 
The snake has left its skin upon the floor. 
Key West sank downward under massive clouds 
And silvers and greens spread over the sea. The moon 
Is at the mast-head and the past is dead. 
Her mind will never speak to me again. 
I am free. High above the mast the moon 
Rides clear of her mind and the waves make a refrain 
Of this: that the snake has shed its skin upon 
The floor. Go on through the darkness. The waves fly back 
II 
Her mind had bound me round. The palms were hot 
As if I lived in ashen ground, as if 
The leaves in which the wind kept up its sound 
From my North of cold whistled in a sepulchral South, 
Her South of pine and coral and coraline sea, 
Her home, not mine, in the ever-freshened Keys, 
Her days, her oceanic nights, calling 
For music, for whisperings from the reefs. 
How content I shall be in the North to which I sail 
And to feel sure and to forget the bleaching sand ... 
III 
I hated the weathery yawl from which the pools 
Disclosed the sea floor and the wilderness 
Of waving weeds. I hated the vivid blooms 
Curled over the shadowless hut, the rust and bones, 
The trees likes bones and the leaves half sand, half sun. 
To stand here on the deck in the dark and say 
Farewell and to know that that land is forever gone 
And that she will not follow in any word 
Or look, nor ever again in thought, except 
That I loved her once ... Farewell. Go on, high ship. 
IV 
My North is leafless and lies in a wintry slime 
Both of men and clouds, a slime of men in crowds. 
The men are moving as the water moves, 
This darkened water cloven by sullen swells 
Against your sides, then shoving and slithering, 
The darkness shattered, turbulent with foam. 
To be free again, to return to the violent mind 
That is their mind, these men, and that will bind 
Me round, carry me, misty deck, carry me 
To the cold, go on, high ship, go on, plunge on. 
Final Soliloquy Of The Interior Paramour 
Light the first light of evening, as in a room 
In which we rest and, for small reason, think 
The world imagined is the ultimate good. 
This is, therefore, the intensest rendezvous. 
It is in that thought that we collect ourselves, 
Out of all the indifferences, into one thing: 
Within a single thing, a single shawl 
Wrapped tightly round us, since we are poor, a warmth, 
A light, a power, the miraculous influence. 
Here, now, we forget each other and ourselves. 
We feel the obscurity of an order, a whole, 
A knowledge, that which arranged the rendezvous. 
Within its vital boundary, in the mind. 
We say God and the imagination are one... 
How high that highest candle lights the dark. 
Out of this same light, out of the central mind, 
We make a dwelling in the evening air, 
In which being there together is enough. 
Frogs Eat Butterflies, Snakes Eat Frogs, Hogs Eat 
Snakes, Men Eat Hogs 
It is true that the rivers went nosing like swine, 
Tugging at banks, until they seemed 
Bland belly-sounds in somnolent troughs, 
That the air was heavy with the breath of these swine, 
The breath of turgid summer, and 
Heavy with thunder's rattapallax, 
That the man who erected this cabin, planted 
This field, and tended it awhile, 
Knew not the quirks of imagery, 
That the hours of his indolent, arid days, 
Grotesque with this nosing in banks, 
This somnolence and rattapallax, 
Seemed to suckle themselves on his arid being, 
As the swine-like rivers suckled themselves 
While they went seaward to the sea-mouths. 
Gray Room 
Although you sit in a room that is gray, 
Except for the silver 
Of the straw-paper, 
And pick 
At your pale white gown; 
Or lift one of the green beads 
Of your necklace, 
To let it fall; 
Or gaze at your green fan 
Printed with the red branches of a red willow; 
Or, with one finger, 
Move the leaf in the bowl-The 
leaf that has fallen from the branches of the forsythia 
Beside you... 
What is all this? 
I know how furiously your heart is beating. 
Hymn From A Watermelon Pavilion 
You dweller in the dark cabin, 
To whom the watermelon is always purple, 
Whose garden is wind and moon, 
Of the two dreams, night and day, 
What lover, what dreamer, would choose 
The one obscured by sleep? 
Here is the plantain by your door 
And the best cock of red feather 
That crew before the clocks. 
A feme may come, leaf-green, 
Whose coming may give revel 
Beyond revelries of sleep, 
Yes, and the blackbird spread its tail, 
So that the sun may speckle, 
While it creaks hail. 
You dweller in the dark cabin, 
Rise, since rising will not waken, 
And hail, cry hail, cry hail. 
In The Carolinas 
The lilacs wither in the Carolinas. 
Already the butterflies flutter above the cabins. 
Already the new-born children interpret love 
In the voices of mothers. 
Timeless mothers, 
How is it that your aspic nipples 
For once vent honey? 
The pine-tree sweetens my body 
The white iris beautifies me. 
It Must Give Pleasure 
I 
To sing jubilas at exact, accustomed times, 
To be crested and wear the mane of a multitude 
And so, as part, to exult with its great throat, 
To speak of joy and to sing of it, borne on 
The shoulders of joyous men, to feel the heart 
That is the common, the bravest fundament, 
This is a facile exercise. Jerome 
Begat the tubas and the fire-wind strings, 
The golden fingers picking dark-blue air: 
For companies of voices moving there, 
To find of sound the bleakest ancestor, 
To find of light a music issuing 
Whereon it falls in more than sensual mode. 
But the difficultest rigor is forthwith, 
On the image of what we see, to catch from that 
Irrational moment its unreasoning, 
As when the sun comes rising, when the sea 
Clears deeply, when the moon hangs on the wall 
Of heaven-haven. These are not things transformed. 
Yet we are shaken by them as if they were. 
We reason about them with a later reason. 
Jasmine's Beautiful Thoughts Underneath the Willow 
My titillations have no foot-notes 
And their memorials are the phrases 
Of idiosyncratic music. 
The love that will not be transported 
In an old, frizzled, flambeaud manner, 
But muses on its eccentricity, 
Is like a vivid apprehension 
Of bliss beyond the mutes of plaster, 
Or paper souvenirs of rapture, 
Of bliss submerged beneath appearance, 
In an interior ocean's rocking 
Of long, capricious fugues and chorals. 
Le Monocle De Mon Oncle 
“Mother of heaven, regina of the clouds, 
O sceptre of the sun, crown of the moon, 
There is not nothing, no, no, never nothing, 
Like the clashed edges of two words that kill.” 
And so I mocked her in magnificent measure. 
Or was it that I mocked myself alone? 
I wish that I might be a thinking stone. 
The sea of spuming thought foists up again 
The radiant bubble that she was. And then 
A deep up-pouring from some saltier well 
Within me, bursts its watery syllable. 
II 
A red bird flies across the golden floor. 
It is a red bird that seeks out his choir 
Among the choirs of wind and wet and wing. 
A torrent will fall from him when he finds. 
Shall I uncrumple this much-crumpled thing? 
I am a man of fortune greeting heirs; 
For it has come that thus I greet the spring. 
These choirs of welcome choir for me farewell. 
No spring can follow past meridian. 
Yet you persist with anecdotal bliss 
To make believe a starry connaissance. 
III 
Is it for nothing, then, that old Chinese 
Sat tittivating by their mountain pools 
Or in the Yangtse studied out their beards? 
I shall not play the flat historic scale. 
You know how Utamaro’s beauties sought 
The end of love in their all-speaking braids. 
You know the mountainous coiffures of Bath. 
Alas! Have all the barbers lived in vain 
That not one curl in nature has survived? 
Why, without pity on these studious ghosts, 
Do you come dripping in your hair from sleep? 
IV 
This luscious and impeccable fruit of life 
Falls, it appears, of its own weight to earth. 
When you were Eve, its acrid juice was sweet, 
Untasted, in its heavenly, orchard air. 
An apple serves as well as any skull 
To be the book in which to read a round, 
And is as excellent, in that it is composed 
Of what, like skulls, comes rotting back to ground. 
But it excels in this, that as the fruit 
Of love, it is a book too mad to read 
Before one merely reads to pass the time. 
V 
In the high west there burns a furious star. 
It is for fiery boys that star was set 
And for sweet-smelling virgins close to them. 
The measure of the intensity of love 
Is measure, also, of the verve of earth. 
For me, the firefly’s quick, electric stroke 
Ticks tediously the time of one more year. 
And you? Remember how the crickets came 
Out of their mother grass, like little kin, 
In the pale nights, when your first imagery 
Found inklings of your bond to all that dust. 
VI 
If men at forty will be painting lakes 
The ephemeral blues must merge for them in one, 
The basic slate, the universal hue. 
There is a substance in us that prevails. 
But in our amours amorists discern 
Such fluctuations that their scrivening 
Is breathless to attend each quirky turn. 
When amorists grow bald, then amours shrink 
Into the compass and curriculum 
Of introspective exiles, lecturing. 
It is a theme for Hyacinth alone. 
VII 
The mules that angels ride come slowly down 
The blazing passes, from beyond the sun. 
Descensions of their tinkling bells arrive. 
These muleteers are dainty of their way. 
Meantime, centurions guffaw and beat 
Their shrilling tankards on the table-boards. 
This parable, in sense, amounts to this: 
The honey of heaven may or may not come, 
But that of earth both comes and goes at once. 
Suppose these couriers brought amid their train 
A damsel heightened by eternal bloom. 
VIII 
Like a dull scholar, I behold, in love, 
An ancient aspect touching a new mind. 
It comes, it blooms, it bears its fruit and dies. 
This trivial trope reveals a way of truth. 
Our bloom is gone. We are the fruit thereof. 
Two golden gourds distended on our vines, 
Into the autumn weather, splashed with frost, 
Distorted by hale fatness, turned grotesque. 
We hang like warty squashes, streaked and rayed, 
The laughing sky will see the two of us 
Washed into rinds by rotting winter rains. 
IX 
In verses wild with motion, full of din, 
Loudened by cries, by clashes, quick and sure 
As the deadly thought of men accomplishing 
Their curious fates in war, come, celebrate 
The faith of forty, ward of Cupido. 
Most venerable heart, the lustiest conceit 
Is not too lusty for your broadening. 
I quiz all sounds, all thoughts, all everything 
For the music and manner of the paladins 
To make oblation fit. Where shall I find 
Bravura adequate to this great hymn? 
X 
The fops of fancy in their poems leave 
Memorabilia of the mystic spouts, 
Spontaneously watering their gritty soils. 
I am a yeoman, as such fellows go. 
I know no magic trees, no balmy boughs, 
No silver-ruddy, gold-vermilion fruits. 
But, after all, I know a tree that bears 
A semblance to the thing I have in mind. 
It stands gigantic, with a certain tip 
To which all birds come sometime in their time. 
But when they go that tip still tips the tree. 
XI 
If sex were all, then every trembling hand 
Could make us squeak, like dolls, the wished-for words. 
But note the unconscionable treachery of fate, 
That makes us weep, laugh, grunt and groan, and shout 
Doleful heroics, pinching gestures forth 
From madness or delight, without regard 
To that first, foremost law. Anguishing hour! 
Last night, we sat beside a pool of pink, 
Clippered with lilies scudding the bright chromes, 
Keen to the point of starlight, while a frog 
Boomed from his very belly odious chords. 
XII 
A blue pigeon it is, that circles the blue sky, 
On sidelong wing, around and round and round. 
A white pigeon it is, that flutters to the ground, 
Grown tired of flight. Like a dark rabbi, I 
Observed, when young, the nature of mankind, 
In lordly study. Every day, I found 
Man proved a gobbet in my mincing world. 
Like a rose rabbi, later, I pursued, 
And still pursue, the origin and course 
Of love, but until now I never knew 
That fluttering things have so distinct a shade. 
Looking Across The Fields And Watching The Birds Fly 
Among the more irritating minor ideas 
Of Mr. Homburg during his visits home 
To Concord, at the edge of things, was this: 
To think away the grass, the trees, the clouds, 
Not to transform them into other things, 
Is only what the sun does every day, 
Until we say to ourselves that there may be 
A pensive nature, a mechanical 
And slightly detestable operandum, free 
From man's ghost, larger and yet a little like, 
Without his literature and without his gods . . . 
No doubt we live beyond ourselves in air, 
In an element that does not do for us, 
so well, that which we do for ourselves, too big, 
A thing not planned for imagery or belief, 
Not one of the masculine myths we used to make, 
A transparency through which the swallow weaves, 
Without any form or any sense of form, 
What we know in what we see, what we feel in what 
We hear, what we are, beyond mystic disputation, 
In the tumult of integrations out of the sky, 
And what we think, a breathing like the wind, 
A moving part of a motion, a discovery 
Part of a discovery, a change part of a change, 
A sharing of color and being part of it. 
The afternoon is visibly a source, 
Too wide, too irised, to be more than calm, 
Too much like thinking to be less than thought, 
Obscurest parent, obscurest patriarch, 
A daily majesty of meditation, 
That comes and goes in silences of its own. 
We think, then as the sun shines or does not. 
We think as wind skitters on a pond in a field 
Or we put mantles on our words because 
The same wind, rising and rising, makes a sound 
Like the last muting of winter as it ends. 
A new scholar replacing an older one reflects 
A moment on this fantasia. He seeks 
For a human that can be accounted for. 
The spirit comes from the body of the world, 
Or so Mr. Homburg thought: the body of a world 
Whose blunt laws make an affectation of mind, 
The mannerism of nature caught in a glass 
And there become a spirit's mannerism, 
A glass aswarm with things going as far as they can. 
Madame La Fleurie 
Weight him down, O side-stars, with the great weightings of 
the end. 
Seal him there. He looked in a glass of the earth and thought 
he lived in it. 
Now, he brings all that he saw into the earth, to the waiting 
parent. 
His crisp knowledge is devoured by her, beneath a dew. 
Weight him, weight, weight him with the sleepiness of the 
moon. 
It was only a glass because he looked in it. It was nothing he 
could be told. 
It was a language he spoke, because he must, yet did not know. 
It was a page he had found in the handbook of heartbreak. 
The black fugatos are strumming the blackness of black... 
The thick strings stutter the finial gutturals. 
He does not lie there remembering the blue-jay, say the jay. 
His grief is that his mother should feed on him, himself and 
what he saw, 
In that distant chamber, a bearded queen, wicked in her dead 
light. 
Metaphors Of A Magnifico 
Twenty men crossing a bridge, 
Into a village, 
Are twenty men crossing twenty bridges, 
Into twenty villages, 
Or one man 
Crossing a single bridge into a village. 
This is old song 
That will not declare itself . . . 
Twenty men crossing a bridge, 
Into a village, 
Are 
Twenty men crossing a bridge 
Into a village. 
That will not declare itself 
Yet is certain as meaning . . . 
The boots of the men clump 
On the boards of the bridge. 
The first white wall of the village 
Rises through fruit-trees. 
Of what was it I was thinking? 
So the meaning escapes. 
The first white wall of the village... 
The fruit-trees... 
No Possum, No Sop, No Taters 
He is not here, the old sun, 
As absent as if we were asleep. 
The field is frozen. The leaves are dry. 
Bad is final in this light. 
In this bleak air the broken stalks 
Have arms without hands. They have trunks 
Without legs or, for that, without heads. 
They have heads in which a captive cry 
Is merely the moving of a tongue. 
Snow sparkles like eyesight falling to earth, 
Like seeing fallen brightly away. 
The leaves hop, scraping on the ground. 
It is deep January. The sky is hard. 
The stalks are firmly rooted in ice. 
It is in this solitude, a syllable, 
Out of these gawky flitterings, 
Intones its single emptiness, 
The savagest hollow of winter-sound. 
It is here, in this bad, that we reach 
The last purity of the knowledge of good. 
The crow looks rusty as he rises up. 
Bright is the malice in his eye... 
One joins him there for company, 
But at a distance, in another tree. 
Nomad Exquisite 
As the immense dew of Florida 
Brings forth 
The big-finned palm 
And green vine angering for life, 
As the immense dew of Florida 
Brings forth hymn and hymn 
From the beholder, 
Beholding all these green sides 
And gold sides of green sides, 
And blessed mornings, 
Meet for the eye of the young alligator, 
And lightning colors 
So, in me, comes flinging 
Forms, flames, and the flakes of flames. 
Not Ideas About The Thing But The Thing Itself 
At the earliest ending of winter, 
In March, a scrawny cry from outside 
Seemed like a sound in his mind. 
He knew that he heard it, 
A bird's cry, at daylight or before, 
In the early March wind. 
The sun was rising at six, 
No longer a battered panache above snow... 
It would have been outside. 
It was not from the vast ventriloquism 
Of sleep's faded papier-mache... 
The sun was coming from the outside. 
That scrawny cry--It was 
A chorister whose c preceded the choir. 
It was part of the colossal sun, 
Surrounded by its choral rings, 
Still far away. It was like 
A new knowledge of reality. 
Oak Leaves are Hands 
In Hydaspia, by Howzen 
Lived a lady, Lady Lowzen, 
For whom what is was other things. 
Flora she was once. She was florid 
A bachelor of feen masquerie, 
Evasive and metamorphorid. 
Mac Mort she had been, ago, 
Twelve-legged in her ancestral hells, 
Weaving and weaving many arms. 
Even now, the centre of something else, 
Merely by putting hand to brow, 
Brooding on centuries like shells. 
As the acorn broods on former oaks 
In memorials of Northern sound, 
Skims the real for its unreal, 
So she in Hydaspia created 
Out of the movement of few words, 
Flora Lowzen invigorated 
Archaic and future happenings, 
In glittering seven-colored changes, 
By Howzen, the chromatic Lowzen. 
Of Modern Poetry 
The poem of the mind in the act of finding 
What will suffice. It has not always had 
To find: the scene was set; it repeated what 
Was in the script. 
Then the theatre was changed 
To something else. Its past was a souvenir. 
It has to be living, to learn the speech of the place. 
It has to face the men of the time and to meet 
The women of the time. It has to think about war 
And it has to find what will suffice. It has 
To construct a new stage. It has to be on that stage, 
And, like an insatiable actor, slowly and 
With meditation, speak words that in the ear, 
In the delicatest ear of the mind, repeat, 
Exactly, that which it wants to hear, at the sound 
Of which, an invisible audience listens, 
Not to the play, but to itself, expressed 
In an emotion as of two people, as of two 
Emotions becoming one. The actor is 
A metaphysician in the dark, twanging 
An instrument, twanging a wiry string that gives 
Sounds passing through sudden rightnesses, wholly 
Containing the mind, below which it cannot descend, 
Beyond which it has no will to rise. 
It must 
Be the finding of a satisfaction, and may 
Be of a man skating, a woman dancing, a woman 
Combing. The poem of the act of the mind. 
Peter Quince At The Clavier 
I 
Just as my fingers on these keys 
Make music, so the self-same sounds 
On my spirit make a music, too. 
Music is feeling, then, not sound; 
And thus it is that what I feel, 
Here in this room, desiring you, 
Thinking of your blue-shadowed silk, 
Is music. It is like the strain 
Waked in the elders by Susanna; 
Of a green evening, clear and warm, 
She bathed in her still garden, while 
The red-eyed elders, watching, felt 
The basses of their beings throb 
In witching chords, and their thin blood 
Pulse pizzicati of Hosanna. 
II 
In the green water, clear and warm, 
Susanna lay. 
She searched 
The touch of springs, 
And found 
Concealed imaginings. 
She sighed, 
For so much melody. 
Upon the bank, she stood 
In the cool 
Of spent emotions. 
She felt, among the leaves, 
The dew 
Of old devotions. 
She walked upon the grass, 
Still quavering. 
The winds were like her maids, 
On timid feet, 
Fetching her woven scarves, 
Yet wavering. 
A breath upon her hand 
Muted the night. 
She turned -A 
cymbal crashed, 
Amid roaring horns. 
III 
Soon, with a noise like tambourines, 
Came her attendant Byzantines. 
They wondered why Susanna cried 
Against the elders by her side; 
And as they whispered, the refrain 
Was like a willow swept by rain. 
Anon, their lamps' uplifted flame 
Revealed Susanna and her shame. 
And then, the simpering Byzantines 
Fled, with a noise like tambourines. 
IV 
Beauty is momentary in the mind -The 
fitful tracing of a portal; 
But in the flesh it is immortal. 
The body dies; the body's beauty lives. 
So evenings die, in their green going, 
A wave, interminably flowing. 
So gardens die, their meek breath scenting 
The cowl of winter, done repenting. 
So maidens die, to the auroral 
Celebration of a maiden's choral. 
Susanna's music touched the bawdy strings 
Of those white elders; but, escaping, 
Left only Death's ironic scraping. 
Now, in its immortality, it plays 
On the clear viol of her memory, 
And makes a constant sacrament of praise. 
Phases 
I. 
There’s a little square in Paris, 
Waiting until we pass. 
They sit idly there, 
They sip the glass. 
There’s a cab-horse at the corner, 
There's rain. The season grieves. 
It was silver once, 
And green with leaves. 
There’s a parrot in a window, 
Will see us on parade, 
Hear the loud drums roll— 
And serenade. 
II. 
This was the salty taste of glory, 
That it was not 
Like Agamemnon’s story. 
Only, an eyeball in the mud, 
And Hopkins, 
Flat and pale and gory! 
III. 
But the bugles, in the night, 
Were wings that bore 
To where our comfort was; 
Arabesques of candle beams, 
Winding 
Through our heavy dreams; 
Winds that blew 
Where the bending iris grew; 
Birds of intermitted bliss, 
Singing in the night's abyss; 
Vines with yellow fruit, 
That fell 
Along the walls 
That bordered Hell. 
IV. 
Death's nobility again 
Beautified the simplest men. 
Fallen Winkle felt the pride 
Of Agamemnon 
When he died. 
What could London’s 
Work and waste 
Give him— 
To that salty, sacrificial taste? 
What could London’s 
Sorrow bring— 
To that short, triumphant sting? 
Poem Written At Morning 
A sunny day's complete Poussiniana 
Divide it from itself. It is this or that 
And it is not. 
By metaphor you paint 
A thing. Thus, the pineapple was a leather fruit, 
A fruit for pewter, thorned and palmed and blue, 
To be served by men of ice. 
The senses paint 
By metaphor. The juice was fragranter 
Than wettest cinnamon. It was cribled pears 
Dripping a morning sap. 
The truth must be 
That you do not see, you experience, you feel, 
That the buxom eye brings merely its element 
To the total thing, a shapeless giant forced 
Upward. 
Green were the curls upon that head. 
Poetry Is A Destructive Force 
That's what misery is, 
Nothing to have at heart. 
It is to have or nothing. 
It is a thing to have, 
A lion, an ox in his breast, 
To feel it breathing there. 
Corazon, stout dog, 
Young ox, bow-legged bear, 
He tastes its blood, not spit. 
He is like a man 
In the body of a violent beast 
Its muscles are his own... 
The lion sleeps in the sun. 
Its nose is on its paws. 
It can kill a man. 
Repetitions of a Young Captain 
A tempest cracked on the theatre. Quickly, 
The wind beat in the roof and half the walls. 
The ruin stood still in an external world. 
It had been real. It was something overseas 
That I remembered, something that I remembered 
Overseas, that stood in an external world. 
It had been real. It was not now. The rip 
Of the wind and the glittering were real now, 
In the spectacle of a new reality. 
II 
The people sat in the theatre, in the ruin, 
As if nothing had happened. The dim actor spoke. 
His hands became his feelings. His thick shape 
Issued thin seconds glibly gapering. 
Then faintly encrusted, a tissue of the moon 
Walked toward him on the stage and they embraced. 
Sea Surface Full Of Clouds 
In that November off Tehuantepec, 
The slopping of the sea grew still one night 
And in the morning summer hued the deck 
And made one think of rosy chocolate 
And gilt umbrellas. Paradisal green 
Gave suavity to the perplexed machine 
Of ocean, which like limpid water lay. 
Who, then, in that ambrosial latitude 
Out of the light evolved the morning blooms, 
Who, then, evolved the sea-blooms from the clouds 
Diffusing balm in that Pacific calm? 
C'etait mon enfant, mon bijou, mon ame. 
The sea-clouds whitened far below the calm 
And moved, as blooms move, in the swimming green 
And in its watery radiance, while the hue 
Of heaven in an antique reflection rolled 
Round those flotillas. And sometimes the sea 
Poured brilliant iris on the glistening blue.
 II 
In that November off Tehuantepec 
The slopping of the sea grew still one night. 
At breakfast jelly yellow streaked the deck 
And made one think of chop-house chocolate 
And sham umbrellas. And a sham-like green 
Capped summer-seeming on the tense machine 
Of ocean, which in sinister flatness lay. 
Who, then, beheld the rising of the clouds 
That strode submerged in that malevolent sheen, 
Who saw the mortal massives of the blooms 
Of water moving on the water-floor? 
C'etait mon frere du ciel, ma vie, mon or. 
The gongs rang loudly as the windy booms 
Hoo-hooed it in the darkened ocean-blooms. 
The gongs grew still. And then blue heaven spread 
Its crystalline pendentives on the sea 
And the macabre of the water-glooms 
In an enormous undulation fled.
 III 
In that November off Tehuantepec, 
The slopping of the sea grew still one night 
And a pale silver patterned on the deck 
And made one think of porcelain chocolate 
And pied umbrellas. An uncertain green, 
Piano-polished, held the tranced machine 
Of ocean, as a prelude holds and holds, 
Who, seeing silver petals of white blooms 
Unfolding in the water, feeling sure 
Of the milk within the saltiest spurge, heard, then, 
The sea unfolding in the sunken clouds? 
Oh! C'etait mon extase et mon amour. 
So deeply sunken were they that the shrouds, 
The shrouding shadows, made the petals black 
Until the rolling heaven made them blue, 
A blue beyond the rainy hyacinth, 
And smiting the crevasses of the leaves 
Deluged the ocean with a sapphire blue.
 IV 
In that November off Tehuantepec 
The night-long slopping of the sea grew still. 
A mallow morning dozed upon the deck 
And made one think of musky chocolate 
And frail umbrellas. A too-fluent green 
Suggested malice in the dry machine 
Of ocean, pondering dank stratagem. 
Who then beheld the figures of the clouds 
Like blooms secluded in the thick marine? 
Like blooms? Like damasks that were shaken off 
From the loosed girdles in the spangling must. 
C'etait ma foi, la nonchalance divine. 
The nakedness would rise and suddenly turn 
Salt masks of beard and mouths of bellowing, 
Would- But more suddenly the heaven rolled 
Its bluest sea-clouds in the thinking green, 
And the nakedness became the broadest blooms, 
Mile-mallows that a mallow sun cajoled.
 V 
In that November off Tehuantepec 
Night stilled the slopping of the sea. 
The day came, bowing and voluble, upon the deck, 
Good clown... One thought of Chinese chocolate 
And large umbrellas. And a motley green 
Followed the drift of the obese machine 
Of ocean, perfected in indolence. 
What pistache one, ingenious and droll, 
Beheld the sovereign clouds as jugglery 
And the sea as turquoise-turbaned Sambo, neat 
At tossing saucers- cloudy-conjuring sea? 
C'etait mon esprit batard, l'ignominie. 
The sovereign clouds came clustering. The conch 
Of loyal conjuration trumped. The wind 
Of green blooms turning crisped the motley hue 
To clearing opalescence. Then the sea 
And heaven rolled as one and from the two 
Came fresh transfigurings of freshest blue. 
Six Significant Landscapes 
I 
An old man sits 
In the shadow of a pine tree 
In China. 
He sees larkspur, 
Blue and white, 
At the edge of the shadow, 
Move in the wind. 
His beard moves in the wind. 
The pine tree moves in the wind. 
Thus water flows 
Over weeds.
	II 
The night is of the colour 
Of a woman's arm: 
Night, the female, 
Obscure, 
Fragrant and supple, 
Conceals herself. 
A pool shines, 
Like a bracelet 
Shaken in a dance.
	III 
I measure myself 
Against a tall tree. 
I find that I am much taller, 
For I reach right up to the sun, 
With my eye; 
And I reach to the shore of the sea 
With my ear. 
Nevertheless, I dislike 
The way ants crawl 
In and out of my shadow.
	IV 
When my dream was near the moon, 
The white folds of its gown 
Filled with yellow light. 
The soles of its feet 
Grew red. 
Its hair filled 
With certain blue crystallizations 
From stars, 
Not far off.
	V 
Not all the knives of the lamp-posts, 
Nor the chisels of the long streets, 
Nor the mallets of the domes 
And high towers, 
Can carve 
What one star can carve, 
Shining through the grape-leaves.
	VI 
Rationalists, wearing square hats, 
Think, in square rooms, 
Looking at the floor, 
Looking at the ceiling. 
They confine themselves 
To right-angled triangles. 
If they tried rhomboids, 
Cones, waving lines, ellipses -
As, for example, the ellipse of the half-moon -
Rationalists would wear sombreros. 
Study Of Two Pears 
I 
Opusculum paedagogum. 
The pears are not viols, 
Nudes or bottles. 
They resemble nothing else. 
II 
They are yellow forms 
Composed of curves 
Bulging toward the base. 
They are touched red. 
III 
They are not flat surfaces 
Having curved outlines. 
They are round 
Tapering toward the top. 
IV 
In the way they are modelled 
There are bits of blue. 
A hard dry leaf hangs 
From the stem. 
V 
The yellow glistens. 
It glistens with various yellows, 
Citrons, oranges and greens 
Flowering over the skin. 
VI 
The shadows of the pears 
Are blobs on the green cloth. 
The pears are not seen 
As the observer wills. 
Sunday Morning 
1 
Complacencies of the peignoir, and late 
Coffee and oranges in a sunny chair, 
And the green freedom of a cockatoo 
Upon a rug mingle to dissipate 
The holy hush of ancient sacrifice. 
She dreams a little, and she feels the dark 
Encroachment of that old catastrophe, 
As a calm darkens among water-lights. 
The pungent oranges and bright, green wings 
Seem things in some procession of the dead, 
Winding across wide water, without sound. 
The day is like wide water, without sound, 
Stilled for the passing of her dreaming feet 
Over the seas, to silent Palestine, 
Dominion of the blood and sepulchre. 
2 
Why should she give her bounty to the dead? 
What is divinity if it can come 
Only in silent shadows and in dreams? 
Shall she not find in comforts of the sun, 
In pungent fruit and bright green wings, or else 
In any balm or beauty of the earth, 
Things to be cherished like the thought of heaven? 
Divinity must live within herself: 
Passions of rain, or moods in falling snow; 
Grievings in loneliness, or unsubdued 
Elations when the forest blooms; gusty 
Emotions on wet roads on autumn nights; 
All pleasures and all pains, remembering 
The bough of summer and the winter branch. 
These are the measure destined for her soul. 
3 
Jove in the clouds had his inhuman birth. 
No mother suckled him, no sweet land gave 
Large-mannered motions to his mythy mind. 
He moved among us, as a muttering king, 
Magnificent, would move among his hinds, 
Until our blood, commingling, virginal, 
With heaven, brought such requital to desire 
The very hinds discerned it, in a star. 
Shall our blood fail? Or shall it come to be 
The blood of paradise? And shall the earth 
Seem all of paradise that we shall know? 
The sky will be much friendlier then than now, 
A part of labor and a part of pain, 
And next in glory to enduring love, 
Not this dividing and indifferent blue. 
4 
She says, 'I am content when wakened birds, 
Before they fly, test the reality 
Of misty fields, by their sweet questionings; 
But when the birds are gone, and their warm fields 
Return no more, where, then, is paradise?' 
There is not any haunt of prophecy, 
Nor any old chimera of the grave, 
Neither the golden underground, nor isle 
Melodious, where spirits gat them home, 
Nor visionary south, nor cloudy palm 
Remote on heaven's hill, that has endured 
As April's green endures; or will endure 
Like her remembrance of awakened birds, 
Or her desire for June and evening, tipped 
By the consummation of the swallow's wings. 
5 
She says, 'But in contentment I still feel 
The need of some imperishable bliss.' 
Death is the mother of beauty; hence from her, 
Alone, shall come fulfillment to our dreams 
And our desires. Although she strews the leaves 
Of sure obliteration on our paths, 
The path sick sorrow took, the many paths 
Where triumph rang its brassy phrase, or love 
Whispered a little out of tenderness, 
She makes the willow shiver in the sun 
For maidens who were wont to sit and gaze 
Upon the grass, relinquished to their feet. 
She causes boys to pile new plums and pears 
On disregarded plate. The maidens taste 
And stray impassioned in the littering leaves. 
6 
Is there no change of death in paradise? 
Does ripe fruit never fall? Or do the boughs 
Hang always heavy in that perfect sky, 
Unchanging, yet so like our perishing earth, 
With rivers like our own that seek for seas 
They never find, the same receding shores 
That never touch with inarticulate pang? 
Why set pear upon those river-banks 
Or spice the shores with odors of the plum? 
Alas, that they should wear our colors there, 
The silken weavings of our afternoons, 
And pick the strings of our insipid lutes! 
Death is the mother of beauty, mystical, 
Within whose burning bosom we devise 
Our earthly mothers waiting, sleeplessly. 
7 
Supple and turbulent, a ring of men 
Shall chant in orgy on a summer morn 
Their boisterous devotion to the sun, 
Not as a god, but as a god might be, 
Naked among them, like a savage source. 
Their chant shall be a chant of paradise, 
Out of their blood, returning to the sky; 
And in their chant shall enter, voice by voice, 
The windy lake wherein their lord delights, 
The trees, like serafin, and echoing hills, 
That choir among themselves long afterward. 
They shall know well the heavenly fellowship 
Of men that perish and of summer morn. 
And whence they came and whither they shall go 
The dew upon their feet shall manifest. 
8 
She hears, upon that water without sound, 
A voice that cries, 'The tomb in Palestine 
Is not the porch of spirits lingering. 
It is the grave of Jesus, where he lay.' 
We live in an old chaos of the sun, 
Or old dependency of day and night, 
Or island solitude, unsponsored, free, 
Of that wide water, inescapable. 
Deer walk upon our mountains, and the quail 
Whistle about us their spontaneous cries; 
Sweet berries ripen in the wilderness; 
And, in the isolation of the sky, 
At evening, casual flocks of pigeons make 
Ambiguous undulations as they sink, 
Downward to darkness, on extended wings. 
Table Talk 
Granted, we die for good. 
Life, then, is largely a thing 
Of happens to like, not should. 
And that, too, granted, why 
Do I happen to like red bush, 
Grey grass and green-gray sky? 
What else remains? But red, 
Gray, green, why those of all? 
That is not what I said: 
Not those of all. But those. 
One likes what one happens to like. 
One likes the way red grows. 
It cannot matter at all. 
Happens to like is one 
Of the ways things happen to fall. 
Tattoo 
The light is like a spider. 
It crawls over the water. 
It crawls over the edges of the snow. 
It crawls under your eyelids 
And spreads its webs there-Its 
two webs. 
The webs of your eyes 
Are fastened 
To the flesh and bones of you 
As to rafters or grass. 
There are filaments of your eyes 
On the surface of the water 
And in the edges of the snow. 
Tea At The Palaz Of Hoon 
Not less because in purple I descended 
The western day through what you called 
The loneliest air, not less was I myself. 
What was the ointment sprinkled on my beard? 
What were the hymns that buzzed beside my ears? 
What was the sea whose tide swept through me there? 
Out of my mind the golden ointment rained, 
And my ears made the blowing hymns they heard. 
I was myself the compass of that sea: 
I was the world in which I walked, and what I saw 
Or heard or felt came not but from myself; 
And there I found myself more truly and more strange. 
The Auroras of Autumn 
This is where the serpent lives, the bodiless. 
His head is air. Beneath his tip at night 
Eyes open and fix on us in every sky. 
Or is this another wriggling out of the egg, 
Another image at the end of the cave, 
Another bodiless for the body's slough? 
This is where the serpent lives. This is his nest, 
These fields, these hills, these tinted distances, 
And the pines above and along and beside the sea. 
This is form gulping after formlessness, 
Skin flashing to wished-for disappearances 
And the serpent body flashing without the skin. 
This is the height emerging and its base 
These lights may finally attain a pole 
In the midmost midnight and find the serpent there, 
In another nest, the master of the maze 
Of body and air and forms and images, 
Relentlessly in possession of happiness. 
This is his poison: that we should disbelieve 
Even that. His meditations in the ferns, 
When he moved so slightly to make sure of sun, 
Made us no less as sure. We saw in his head, 
Black beaded on the rock, the flecked animal, 
The moving grass, the Indian in his glade. 
II 
Farewell to an idea . . . A cabin stands, 
Deserted, on a beach. It is white, 
As by a custom or according to 
An ancestral theme or as a consequence 
Of an infinite course. The flowers against the wall 
Are white, a little dried, a kind of mark 
Reminding, trying to remind, of a white 
That was different, something else, last year 
Or before, not the white of an aging afternoon, 
Whether fresher or duller, whether of winter cloud 
Or of winter sky, from horizon to horizon. 
The wind is blowing the sand across the floor. 
Here, being visible is being white, 
Is being of the solid of white, the accomplishment 
Of an extremist in an exercise . . . 
The season changes. A cold wind chills the beach. 
The long lines of it grow longer, emptier, 
A darkness gathers though it does not fall 
And the whiteness grows less vivid on the wall. 
The man who is walking turns blankly on the sand. 
He observes how the north is always enlarging the change, 
With its frigid brilliances, its blue-red sweeps 
And gusts of great enkindlings, its polar green, 
The color of ice and fire and solitude. 
III 
Farewell to an idea . . . The mother's face, 
The purpose of the poem, fills the room. 
They are together, here, and it is warm, 
With none of the prescience of oncoming dreams. 
It is evening. The house is evening, half dissolved. 
Only the half they can never possess remains, 
Still-starred. It is the mother they possess, 
Who gives transparence to their present peace. 
She makes that gentler that can gentle be. 
And yet she too is dissolved, she is destroyed. 
She gives transparence. But she has grown old. 
The necklace is a carving not a kiss. 
The soft hands are a motion not a touch. 
The house will crumble and the books will burn. 
They are at ease in a shelter of the mind 
And the house is of the mind and they and time, 
Together, all together. Boreal night 
Will look like frost as it approaches them 
And to the mother as she falls asleep 
And as they say good-night, good-night. Upstairs 
The windows will be lighted, not the rooms. 
A wind will spread its windy grandeurs round 
And knock like a rifle-butt against the door. 
The wind will command them with invincible sound. 
IV 
Farewell to an idea . . . The cancellings, 
The negations are never final. The father sits 
In space, wherever he sits, of bleak regard, 
As one that is strong in the bushes of his eyes. 
He says no to no and yes to yes. He says yes 
To no; and in saying yes he says farewell. 
He measures the velocities of change. 
He leaps from heaven to heaven more rapidly 
Than bad angels leap from heaven to hell in flames. 
But now he sits in quiet and green-a-day. 
He assumes the great speeds of space and flutters them 
From cloud to cloudless, cloudless to keen clear 
In flights of eye and ear, the highest eye 
And the lowest ear, the deep ear that discerns, 
At evening, things that attend it until it hears 
The supernatural preludes of its own, 
At the moment when the angelic eye defines 
Its actors approaching, in company, in their masks. 
Master O master seated by the fire 
And yet in space and motionless and yet 
Of motion the ever-brightening origin, 
Profound, and yet the king and yet the crown, 
Look at this present throne. What company, 
In masks, can choir it with the naked wind? 
V 
The mother invites humanity to her house 
And table. The father fetches tellers of tales 
And musicians who mute much, muse much, on the tales. 
The father fetches negresses to dance, 
Among the children, like curious ripenesses 
Of pattern in the dance's ripening. 
For these the musicians make insidious tones, 
Clawing the sing-song of their instruments. 
The children laugh and jangle a tinny time. 
The father fetches pageants out of air, 
Scenes of the theatre, vistas and blocks of woods 
And curtains like a naive pretence of sleep. 
Among these the musicians strike the instinctive poem. 
The father fetches his unherded herds, 
Of barbarous tongue, slavered and panting halves 
Of breath, obedient to his trumpet's touch. 
This then is Chatillon or as you please. 
We stand in the tumult of a festival. 
What festival? This loud, disordered mooch? 
These hospitaliers? These brute-like guests? 
These musicians dubbing at a tragedy, 
A-dub, a-dub, which is made up of this: 
That there are no lines to speak? There is no play. 
Or, the persons act one merely by being here. 
VI 
It is a theatre floating through the clouds, 
Itself a cloud, although of misted rock 
And mountains running like water, wave on wave, 
Through waves of light. It is of cloud transformed 
To cloud transformed again, idly, the way 
A season changes color to no end, 
Except the lavishing of itself in change, 
As light changes yellow into gold and gold 
To its opal elements and fire's delight, 
Splashed wide-wise because it likes magnificence 
And the solemn pleasures of magnificent space 
The cloud drifts idly through half-thought-of forms. 
The theatre is filled with flying birds, 
Wild wedges, as of a volcano's smoke, palm-eyed 
And vanishing, a web in a corridor 
Or massive portico. A capitol, 
It may be, is emerging or has just 
Collapsed. The denouement has to be postponed . . . 
This is nothing until in a single man contained, 
Nothing until this named thing nameless is 
And is destroyed. He opens the door of his house 
On flames. The scholar of one candle sees 
An Arctic effulgence flaring on the frame 
Of everything he is. And he feels afraid. 
VII 
Is there an imagination that sits enthroned 
As grim as it is benevolent, the just 
And the unjust, which in the midst of summer stops 
To imagine winter? When the leaves are dead, 
Does it take its place in the north and enfold itself, 
Goat-leaper, crystalled and luminous, sitting 
In highest night? And do these heavens adorn 
And proclaim it, the white creator of black, jetted 
By extinguishings, even of planets as may be, 
Even of earth, even of sight, in snow, 
Except as needed by way of majesty, 
In the sky, as crown and diamond cabala? 
It leaps through us, through all our heavens leaps, 
Extinguishing our planets, one by one, 
Leaving, of where we were and looked, of where 
We knew each other and of each other thought, 
A shivering residue, chilled and foregone, 
Except for that crown and mystical cabala. 
But it dare not leap by chance in its own dark. 
It must change from destiny to slight caprice. 
And thus its jetted tragedy, its stele 
And shape and mournful making move to find 
What must unmake it and, at last, what can, 
Say, a flippant communication under the moon. 
VIII 
There may be always a time of innocence. 
There is never a place. Or if there is no time, 
If it is not a thing of time, nor of place, 
Existing in the idea of it, alone, 
In the sense against calamity, it is not 
Less real. For the oldest and coldest philosopher, 
There is or may be a time of innocence 
As pure principle. Its nature is its end, 
That it should be, and yet not be, a thing 
That pinches the pity of the pitiful man, 
Like a book at evening beautiful but untrue, 
Like a book on rising beautiful and true. 
It is like a thing of ether that exists 
Almost as predicate. But it exists, 
It exists, it is visible, it is, it is. 
So, then, these lights are not a spell of light, 
A saying out of a cloud, but innocence. 
An innocence of the earth and no false sign 
Or symbol of malice. That we partake thereof, 
Lie down like children in this holiness, 
As if, awake, we lay in the quiet of sleep, 
As if the innocent mother sang in the dark 
Of the room and on an accordion, half-heard, 
Created the time and place in which we breathed . . . 
IX 
And of each other thought—in the idiom 
Of the work, in the idiom of an innocent earth, 
Not of the enigma of the guilty dream. 
We were as Danes in Denmark all day long 
And knew each other well, hale-hearted landsmen, 
For whom the outlandish was another day 
Of the week, queerer than Sunday. We thought alike 
And that made brothers of us in a home 
In which we fed on being brothers, fed 
And fattened as on a decorous honeycomb. 
This drama that we live—We lay sticky with sleep. 
This sense of the activity of fate— 
The rendezvous, when she came alone, 
By her coming became a freedom of the two, 
An isolation which only the two could share. 
Shall we be found hanging in the trees next spring? 
Of what disaster in this the imminence: 
Bare limbs, bare trees and a wind as sharp as salt? 
The stars are putting on their glittering belts. 
They throw around their shoulders cloaks that flash 
Like a great shadow's last embellishment. 
It may come tomorrow in the simplest word, 
Almost as part of innocence, almost, 
Almost as the tenderest and the truest part. 
X 
An unhappy people in a happy world— 
Read, rabbi, the phases of this difference. 
An unhappy people in an unhappy world— 
Here are too many mirrors for misery. 
A happy people in an unhappy world— 
It cannot be. There's nothing there to roll 
On the expressive tongue, the finding fang. 
A happy people in a happy world— 
Buffo! A ball, an opera, a bar. 
Turn back to where we were when we began: 
An unhappy people in a happy world. 
Now, solemnize the secretive syllables. 
Read to the congregation, for today 
And for tomorrow, this extremity, 
This contrivance of the spectre of the spheres, 
Contriving balance to contrive a whole, 
The vital, the never-failing genius, 
Fulfilling his meditations, great and small. 
In these unhappy he meditates a whole, 
The full of fortune and the full of fate, 
As if he lived all lives, that he might know, 
In hall harridan, not hushful paradise, 
To a haggling of wind and weather, by these lights 
Like a blaze of summer straw, in winter's nick. 
The Death Of A Soldier 
Life contracts and death is expected, 
As in season of autumn. 
The soldier falls. 
He does not become a three-days personage. 
Imposing his separation, 
Calling for pomp. 
Death is absolute and without memorial, 
As in a season of autumn, 
When the wind stops, 
When the wind stops and, over the heavens, 
The clouds go, nevertheless, 
In their direction. 
The Emperor Of Ice-Cream 
Call the roller of big cigars, 
The muscular one, and bid him whip 
In kitchen cups concupiscent curds. 
Let the wenches dawdle in such dress 
As they are used to wear, and let the boys 
Bring flowers in last month's newspapers. 
Let be be finale of seem. 
The only emperor is the emperor of ice-cream. 
Take from the dresser of deal. 
Lacking the three glass knobs, that sheet 
On which she embroidered fantails once 
And spread it so as to cover her face. 
If her horny feet protrude, they come 
To show how cold she is, and dumb. 
Let the lamp affix its beam. 
The only emperor is the emperor of ice-cream. 
The High-Toned Old Christian Woman 
Poetry is the supreme fiction, madame. 
Take the moral law and make a nave of it 
And from the nave build haunted , 
The conscience is converted into palms, 
Like windy citherns hankering for hymns. 
We agree in 's take 
The opposing law and make a peristyle, 
And from the peristyle project a masque 
Beyond the , our bawdiness, 
Unpurged by epitaph, indulged at last, 
Is equally converted into palms, 
Squiggling like palm for palm, 
Madame, we are where we , 
Therefore, that in the planetary scene 
Your disaffected flagellants, well-stuffed, 
Smacking their muzzy bellies in parade, 
Proud of such novelties of the sublime, 
Such tink and tank and tunk-a-tunk-tunk, 
May, merely may, madame, whip from themselves 
A jovial hullabaloo among the spheres. 
This will make widows fictive things 
Wink as they most when widows wince. 
The House Was Quiet And The World Was Calm 
The house was quiet and the world was calm. 
The reader became the book; and summer night 
Was like the conscious being of the book. 
The house was quiet and the world was calm. 
The words were spoken as if there was no book, 
Except that the reader leaned above the page, 
Wanted to lean, wanted much to be 
The scholar to whom his book is true, to whom 
The summer night is like a perfection of thought. 
The house was quiet because it had to be. 
The quiet was part of the meaning, part of the mind: 
The access of perfection to the page. 
And the world was calm. The truth in a calm world, 
In which there is no other meaning, itself 
Is calm, itself is summer and night, itself 
Is the reader leaning late and reading there. 
The Idea Of Order At Key West 
She sang beyond the genius of the sea. 
The water never formed to mind or voice, 
Like a body wholly body, fluttering 
Its empty sleeves; and yet its mimic motion 
Made constant cry, caused constantly a cry, 
That was not ours although we understood, 
Inhuman, of the veritable ocean. 
The sea was not a mask. No more was she. 
The song and water were not medleyed sound 
Even if what she sang was what she heard, 
Since what she sang was uttered word by word. 
It may be that in all her phrases stirred 
The grinding water and the gasping wind; 
But it was she and not the sea we heard. 
For she was the maker of the song she sang. 
The ever-hooded, tragic-gestured sea 
Was merely a place by which she walked to sing. 
Whose spirit is this? we said, because we knew 
It was the spirit that we sought and knew 
That we should ask this often as she sang. 
If it was only the dark voice of the sea 
That rose, or even colored by many waves; 
If it was only the outer voice of sky 
And cloud, of the sunken coral water-walled, 
However clear, it would have been deep air, 
The heaving speech of air, a summer sound 
Repeated in a summer without end 
And sound alone. But it was more than that, 
More even than her voice, and ours, among 
The meaningless plungings of water and the wind, 
Theatrical distances, bronze shadows heaped 
On high horizons, mountainous atmospheres 
Of sky and sea. 
It was her voice that made 
The sky acutest at its vanishing. 
She measured to the hour its solitude. 
She was the single artificer of the world 
In which she sang. And when she sang, the sea, 
Whatever self it had, became the self 
That was her song, for she was the maker. Then we, 
As we beheld her striding there alone, 
Knew that there was never a world for her 
Except the one she sang and, singing, made. 
Ramon Fernandez, tell me, if you know, 
Why, when the singing ended and we turned 
Toward the town, tell why the glassy lights, 
The lights in the fishing boats at anchor there, 
As the night descended, tilting in the air, 
Mastered the night and portioned out the sea, 
Fixing emblazoned zones and fiery poles, 
Arranging, deepening, enchanting night. 
Oh! Blessed rage for order, pale Ramon, 
The maker's rage to order words of sea 
Words of the fragrant portals, dimly-starred, 
And of ourselves and our origins, 
In ghostlier demarcations, keener sounds. 
The Man On The Dump 
Day creeps down. The moon is creeping up. 
The sun is a corbeil of flowers the moon Blanche 
Places there, a bouquet. Ho-ho…The dump is full 
Of images. Days pass like papers from a press. 
The bouquets come here in the papers. So the sun, 
And so the moon, both come, and the janitor's poems 
Of every day, the wrapper on the can of pears, 
The cat in the paper-bag, the corset, the box 
From Esthonia: the tiger chest, for tea. 
The freshness of night has been fresh a long time. 
The freshness of morning, the blowing of day, one says 
That it puffs as Cornelius Nepos reads, it puffs 
More than, less than or it puffs like this or that. 
The green smacks in the eye, the dew in the green 
Smacks like fresh water in a can, like the sea 
On a cocoanut—how many men have copied dew 
For buttons, how many women have covered themselves 
With dew, dew dresses, stones and chains of dew, heads 
Of the floweriest flowers dewed with the dewiest dew. 
One grows to hate these things except on the dump. 
Now in the time of spring (azaleas, trilliums, 
Myrtle, viburnums, daffodils, blue phlox) , 
Between that disgust and this, between the things 
That are on the dump (azaleas and so on) 
And those that will be (azaleas and so on) , 
One feels the purifying change. One rejects 
The trash.
 That's the moment when the moon creeps up 
To the bubbling of bassoons. That's the time 
One looks at the elephant-colorings of tires. 
Everything is shed; and the moon comes up as the moon 
(All its images are in the dump) and you see 
As a man (not like an image of a man) , 
You see the moon rise in the empty sky. 
One sits and beats an old tin can, lard pail. 
One beats and beats for that which one believes. 
That's what one wants to get near. Could it after all 
Be merely oneself, as superior as the ear 
To a crow's voice? Did the nightingale torture the ear, 
Pack the heart and scratch the mind? And does the ear 
Solace itself in peevish birds? Is it peace, 
Is it a philosopher's honeymoon, one finds 
On the dump? Is it to sit among mattresses of the dead, 
Bottles, pots, shoes, and grass and murmur aptest eve: 
Is it to hear the blatter of grackles and say 
Invisible priest; is it to eject, to pull 
The day to pieces and cry stanza my stone? 
Where was it one first heard of the truth? The the. 
The Man Whose Pharynx Was Bad 
The time of year has grown indifferent. 
Mildew of summer and the deepening snow 
Are both alike in the routine I know: 
I am too dumbly in my being pent. 
The wind attendant on the solstices 
Blows on the shutters of the metropoles, 
Stirring no poet in his sleep, and tolls 
The grand ideas of the villages. 
The malady of the quotidian . . . 
Perhaps if summer ever came to rest 
And lengthened, deepened, comforted, caressed 
Through days like oceans in obsidian 
Horizons, full of night's midsummer blaze; 
Perhaps, if winter once could penetrate 
Through all its purples to the final slate, 
Persisting bleakly in an icy haze; 
One might in turn become less diffident, 
Out of such mildew plucking neater mould 
And spouting new orations of the cold. 
One might. One might. But time will not relent. 
The Man With The Blue Guitar 
The man bent over his guitar, 
A shearsman of sorts. The day was green. 
They said, 'You have a blue guitar, 
You do not play things as they are.' 
The man replied, 'Things as they are 
Are changed upon the blue guitar.' 
And they said then, 'But play, you must, 
A tune beyond us, yet ourselves, 
A tune upon the blue guitar 
Of things exactly as they are.' 
II 
I cannot bring a world quite round, 
Although I patch it as I can. 
I sing a hero's head, large eye 
And bearded bronze, but not a man, 
Although I patch him as I can 
And reach through him almost to man. 
If to serenade almost to man 
Is to miss, by that, things as they are, 
Say it is the serenade 
Of a man that plays a blue guitar. 
III 
Ah, but to play man number one, 
To drive the dagger in his heart, 
To lay his brain upon the board 
And pick the acrid colors out, 
To nail his thought across the door, 
Its wings spread wide to rain and snow, 
To strike his living hi and ho, 
To tick it, tock it, turn it true, 
To bang from it a savage blue, 
Jangling the metal of the strings 
IV 
So that's life, then: things as they are? 
It picks its way on the blue guitar. 
A million people on one string? 
And all their manner in the thing, 
And all their manner, right and wrong, 
And all their manner, weak and strong? 
The feelings crazily, craftily call, 
Like a buzzing of flies in autumn air, 
And that's life, then: things as they are, 
This buzzing of the blue guitar. 
V 
Do not speak to us of the greatness of poetry, 
Of the torches wisping in the underground, 
Of the structure of vaults upon a point of light. 
There are no shadows in our sun, 
Day is desire and night is sleep. 
There are no shadows anywhere. 
The earth, for us, is flat and bare. 
There are no shadows. Poetry 
Exceeding music must take the place 
Of empty heaven and its hymns, 
Ourselves in poetry must take their place, 
Even in the chattering of your guitar. 
VI 
A tune beyond us as we are, 
Yet nothing changed by the blue guitar; 
Ourselves in the tune as if in space, 
Yet nothing changed, except the place 
Of things as they are and only the place 
As you play them, on the blue guitar, 
Placed, so, beyond the compass of change, 
Perceived in a final atmosphere; 
For a moment final, in the way 
The thinking of art seems final when 
The thinking of god is smoky dew. 
The tune is space. The blue guitar 
Becomes the place of things as they are, 
A composing of senses of the guitar. 
VII 
It is the sun that shares our works. 
The moon shares nothing. It is a sea. 
When shall I come to say of the sun, 
It is a sea; it shares nothing; 
The sun no longer shares our works 
And the earth is alive with creeping men, 
Mechanical beetles never quite warm? 
And shall I then stand in the sun, as now 
I stand in the moon, and call it good, 
The immaculate, the merciful good, 
Detached from us, from things as they are? 
Not to be part of the sun? To stand 
Remote and call it merciful? 
The strings are cold on the blue guitar. 
VIII 
The vivid, florid, turgid sky, 
The drenching thunder rolling by, 
The morning deluged still by night, 
The clouds tumultuously bright 
And the feeling heavy in cold chords 
Struggling toward impassioned choirs, 
Crying among the clouds, enraged 
By gold antagonists in air-
I know my lazy, leaden twang 
Is like the reason in a storm; 
And yet it brings the storm to bear. 
I twang it out and leave it there. 
IX 
And the color, the overcast blue 
Of the air, in which the blue guitar 
Is a form, described but difficult, 
And I am merely a shadow hunched 
Above the arrowy, still strings, 
The maker of a thing yet to be made; 
The color like a thought that grows 
Out of a mood, the tragic robe 
Of the actor, half his gesture, half 
His speech, the dress of his meaning, silk 
Sodden with his melancholy words, 
The weather of his stage, himself. 
X 
Raise reddest columns. Toll a bell 
And clap the hollows full of tin. 
Throw papers in the streets, the wills 
Of the dead, majestic in their seals. 
And the beautiful trombones-behold 
The approach of him whom none believes, 
Whom all believe that all believe, 
A pagan in a varnished care. 
Roll a drum upon the blue guitar. 
Lean from the steeple. Cry aloud, 
'Here am I, my adversary, that 
Confront you, hoo-ing the slick trombones, 
Yet with a petty misery 
At heart, a petty misery, 
Ever the prelude to your end, 
The touch that topples men and rock.' 
XV 
Is this picture of Picasso's, this 'hoard 
Of destructions', a picture of ourselves, 
Now, an image of our society? 
Do I sit, deformed, a naked egg, 
Catching at Good-bye, harvest moon, 
Without seeing the harvest or the moon? 
Things as they are have been destroyed. 
Have I? Am I a man that is dead 
At a table on which the food is cold? 
Is my thought a memory, not alive? 
Is the spot on the floor, there, wine or blood 
And whichever it may be, is it mine? 
XXIII 
A few final solutions, like a duet 
With the undertaker: a voice in the clouds, 
Another on earth, the one a voice 
Of ether, the other smelling of drink, 
The voice of ether prevailing, the swell 
Of the undertaker's song in the snow 
Apostrophizing wreaths, the voice 
In the clouds serene and final, next 
The grunted breath scene and final, 
The imagined and the real, thought 
And the truth, Dichtung und Wahrheit, all 
Confusion solved, as in a refrain 
One keeps on playing year by year, 
Concerning the nature of things as they are. 
XXX 
From this I shall evolve a man. 
This is his essence: the old fantoche 
Hanging his shawl upon the wind, 
Like something on the stage, puffed out, 
His strutting studied through centuries. 
At last, in spite of his manner, his eye 
A-cock at the cross-piece on a pole 
Supporting heavy cables, slung 
Through Oxidia, banal suburb, 
One-half of all its installments paid. 
Dew-dapper clapper-traps, blazing 
From crusty stacks above machines. 
Ecce, Oxidia is the seed 
Dropped out of this amber-ember pod, 
Oxidia is the soot of fire, 
Oxidia is Olympia. 
XXXI 
How long and late the pheasant sleeps 
The employer and employee contend, 
Combat, compose their droll affair. 
The bubbling sun will bubble up, 
Spring sparkle and the cock-bird shriek. 
The employer and employee will hear 
And continue their affair. The shriek 
Will rack the thickets. There is no place, 
Here, for the lark fixed in the mind, 
In the museum of the sky. The cock 
Will claw sleep. Morning is not sun, 
It is this posture of the nerves, 
As if a blunted player clutched 
The nuances of the blue guitar. 
It must be this rhapsody or none, 
The rhapsody of things as they are. 
XXXII 
Throw away the lights, the definitions, 
And say of what you see in the dark 
That it is this or that it is that, 
But do not use the rotted names. 
How should you walk in that space and know 
Nothing of the madness of space, 
Nothing of its jocular procreations? 
Throw the lights away. Nothing must stand 
Between you and the shapes you take 
When the crust of shape has been destroyed. 
You as you are? You are yourself. 
The blue guitar surprises you. 
XXXIII 
That generation's dream, aviled 
In the mud, in Monday's dirty light, 
That's it, the only dream they knew, 
Time in its final block, not time 
To come, a wrangling of two dreams. 
Here is the bread of time to come, 
Here is its actual stone. The bread 
Will be our bread, the stone will be 
Our bed and we shall sleep by night. 
We shall forget by day, except 
The moments when we choose to play 
The imagined pine, the imagined jay. 
The Planet On The Table 
Ariel was glad he had written his poems. 
They were of a remembered time 
Or of something seen that he liked. 
Other makings of the sun 
Were waste and welter 
And the ripe shrub writhed. 
His self and the sun were one 
And his poems, although makings of his self, 
Were no less makings of the sun. 
It was not important that they survive. 
What mattered was that they should bear 
Some lineament or character, 
Some affluence, if only half-perceived, 
In the poverty of their words, 
Of the planet of which they were part. 
The Plot Against The Giant 
<i>First Girl</i> 
When this yokel comes maundering, 
Whetting his hacker, 
I shall run before him, 
Diffusing the civilest odors 
Out of geraniums and unsmelled flowers. 
It will check him. 
<i>Second Girl</i> 
I shall run before him, 
Arching cloths besprinkled with colors 
As small as fish-eggs. 
The threads 
Will abash him. 
<i>Third Girl</i> 
Oh, la...le pauvre! 
I shall run before him, 
With a curious puffing. 
He will bend his ear then. 
I shall whisper 
Heavenly labials in a world of gutturals. 
It will undo him. 
The Poem That Took The Place Of A Mountain 
There it was, word for word, 
The poem that took the place of a mountain. 
He breathed its oxygen, 
Even when the book lay turned in the dust of his table. 
It reminded him how he had needed 
A place to go to in his own direction, 
How he had recomposed the pines, 
Shifted the rocks and picked his way among clouds, 
For the outlook that would be right, 
Where he would be complete in an unexplained completion: 
The exact rock where his inexactness 
Would discover, at last, the view toward which they had edged, 
Where he could lie and, gazing down at the sea, 
Recognize his unique and solitary home. 
The River Of Rivers In Connecticut 
There is a great river this side of Stygia 
Before one comes to the first black cataracts 
And trees that lack the intelligence of trees. 
In that river, far this side of Stygia, 
The mere flowing of the water is a gayety, 
Flashing and flashing in the sun. On its banks, 
No shadow walks. The river is fateful, 
Like the last one. But there is no ferryman. 
He could not bend against its propelling force. 
It is not to be seen beneath the appearances 
That tell of it. The steeple at Farmington 
Stands glistening and Haddam shines and sways. 
It is the third commonness with light and air, 
A curriculum, a vigor, a local abstraction . . . 
Call it, one more, a river, an unnamed flowing, 
Space-filled, reflecting the seasons, the folk-lore 
Of each of the senses; call it, again and again, 
The river that flows nowhere, like a sea. 
The Sense Of The Sleight-Of-Hand Man 
One's grand flights, one's Sunday baths, 
One's tootings at the weddings of the soul 
Occur as they occur. So bluish clouds 
Occurred above the empty house and the leaves 
Of the rhododendrons rattled their gold, 
As if someone lived there. Such floods of white 
Came bursting from the clouds. So the wind 
Threw its contorted strength around the sky. 
Could you have said the bluejay suddenly 
Would swoop to earth? It is a wheel, the rays 
Around the sun. The wheel survives the myths. 
The fire eye in the clouds survives the gods. 
To think of a dove with an eye of grenadine 
And pines that are cornets, so it occurs, 
And a little island full of geese and stars: 
It may be the ignorant man, alone, 
Has any chance to mate his life with life 
That is the sensual, pearly spuse, the life 
That is fluent in even the wintriest bronze. 
The Snow Man 
One must have a mind of winter 
To regard the frost and the boughs 
Of the pine-trees crusted with snow; 
And have been cold a long time 
To behold the junipers shagged with ice, 
The spruces rough in the distant glitter 
Of the January sun; and not to think 
Of any misery in the sound of the wind, 
In the sound of a few leaves, 
Which is the sound of the land 
Full of the same wind 
That is blowing in the same bare place 
For the listener, who listens in the snow, 
And, nothing himself, beholds 
Nothing that is not there and the nothing that is. 
The Well Dressed Man With A Beard 
After the final no there comes a yes 
And on that yes the future world depends. 
No was the night. Yes is this present sun. 
If the rejected things, the things denied, 
Slid over the western cataract, yet one, 
One only, one thing that was firm, even 
No greater than a cricket's horn, no more 
Than a thought to be rehearsed all day, a speech 
Of the self that must sustain itself on speech, 
One thing remaining, infallible, would be 
Enough. Ah! douce campagna of that thing! 
Ah! douce campagna, honey in the heart, 
Green in the body, out of a petty phrase, 
Out of a thing believed, a thing affirmed: 
The form on the pillow humming while one sleeps, 
The aureole above the humming house... 
It can never be satisfied, the mind, never. 
Thirteen Ways Of Looking At A Blackbird 
I 
Among twenty snowy mountains, 
The only moving thing 
Was the eye of the black bird. 
II 
I was of three minds, 
Like a tree 
In which there are three blackbirds. 
III 
The blackbird whirled in the autumn winds. 
It was a small part of the pantomime. 
IV 
A man and a woman 
Are one. 
A man and a woman and a blackbird 
Are one. 
V 
I do not know which to prefer, 
The beauty of inflections 
Or the beauty of innuendoes, 
The blackbird whistling 
Or just after. 
VI 
Icicles filled the long window 
With barbaric glass. 
The shadow of the blackbird 
Crossed it, to and fro. 
The mood 
Traced in the shadow 
An indecipherable cause. 
VII 
O thin men of Haddam, 
Why do you imagine golden birds? 
Do you not see how the blackbird 
Walks around the feet 
Of the women about you? 
VIII 
I know noble accents 
And lucid, inescapable rhythms; 
But I know, too, 
That the blackbird is involved 
In what I know. 
IX 
When the blackbird flew out of sight, 
It marked the edge 
Of one of many circles. 
X 
At the sight of blackbirds 
Flying in a green light, 
Even the bawds of euphony 
Would cry out sharply. 
XI 
He rode over Connecticut 
In a glass coach. 
Once, a fear pierced him, 
In that he mistook 
The shadow of his equipage 
For blackbirds. 
XII 
The river is moving. 
The blackbird must be flying. 
XIII 
It was evening all afternoon. 
It was snowing 
And it was going to snow. 
The blackbird sat 
In the cedar-limbs. 
To The One Of Fictive Music 
Sister and mother and diviner love, 
And of the sisterhood of the living dead 
Most near, most clear, and of the clearest bloom, 
And of the fragrant mothers the most dear 
And queen, and of diviner love the day 
And flame and summer and sweet fire, no thread 
Of cloudy silver sprinkles in your gown 
Its venom of renown, and on your head 
No crown is simpler than the simple hair. 
Now, of the music summoned by the birth 
That separates us from the wind and sea, 
Yet leaves us in them, until earth becomes, 
By being so much of the things we are, 
Gross effigy and simulacrum, none 
Gives motion to perfection more serene 
Than yours, out of our own imperfections wrought, 
Most rare, or ever of more kindred air 
In the laborious weaving that you wear. 
For so retentive of themselves are men 
That music is intensest which proclaims 
The near, the clear, and vaunts the clearest bloom, 
And of all the vigils musing the obscure, 
That apprehends the most which sees and names, 
As in your name, an image that is sure, 
Among the arrant spices of the sun, 
O bough and bush and scented vine, in whom 
We give ourselves our likest issuance. 
Yet not too like, yet not so like to be 
Too near, too clear, saving a little to endow 
Our feigning with the strange unlike, whence springs 
The difference that heavenly pity brings. 
For this, musician, in your girdle fixed 
Bear other perfumes. On your pale head wear 
A band entwining, set with fatal stones. 
Unreal, give back to us what once you gave: 
The imagination that we spurned and crave. 
Submitted by Adriana C 
Two Figures In Dense Violet Light 
I had as lief be embraced by the portier of the hotel 
As to get no more from the moonlight 
Than your moist hand. 
Be the voice of the night and Florida in my ear. 
Use dasky words and dusky images. 
Darken your speech. 
Speak, even, as if I did not hear you speaking, 
But spoke for you perfectly in my thoughts, 
Conceiving words, 
As the night conceives the sea-sound in silence, 
And out of the droning sibilants makes 
A serenade. 
Say, puerile, that the buzzards crouch on the ridge-pole 
and sleep with one eye watching the stars fall 
Beyond Key West. 
Say that the palms are clear in the total blue. 
Are clear and are obscure; that it is night; 
That the moon shines. 
Valley Candle 
My candle burned alone in an immense valley. 
Beams of the huge night converged upon it, 
Until the wind blew. 
The beams of the huge night 
Converged upon its image, 
Until the wind blew. 
What Is Divinity 
What is divinity if it can come 
Only in silent shadows and in dreams? 
Shall she not find in comforts of the sun, 
In pungent fruit and bright, green wings, or else 
In any balm or beauty of the earth, 
Things to be cherished like the thought of heaven? 
Divinity must live within herself: 
Passions of rain, or moods in falling snow; 
Grievings in loneliness, or unsubdued 
Elations when the forest blooms; gusty 
Emotions on wet roads on autumn nights; 
All pleasures and all pains, remembering 
The bough of summer and the winter branch, 
These are the measures destined for her soul. 
