21 
I love my love with a v 
Because it is like that 
I love my love with a b 
Because I am beside that 
A king. 
I love my love with an a 
Because she is a queen 
I love my love and a a is the best of them 
Think well and be a king, 
Think more and think again 
I love my love with a dress and a hat 
I love my love and not with this or with that 
I love my love with a y because she is my bride 
I love her with a d because she is my love beside 
Thank you for being there 
Nobody has to care 
Thank you for being here 
Because you are not there. 
And with and without me which is and without she she can be late and then and 
how and all around we think and found that it is time to cry she and I. 
A Blue Coat 
A blue coat is guided guided away, guided and guided away, that is the particular 
color that is used for that length and not any width not even more than a 
shadow. 
A Frightful Release 
A BAG which was left and not only taken but turned away was not found. The 
place was shown to be very like the last time. A piece was not exchanged, not a 
bit of it, a piece was left over. The rest was mismanaged. 
A Long Dress 
That is the current that makes machinery, that makes it crackle, what is the 
current that presents a long line and a necessary waist. What is this current. 
What is the wind, what is it. 
Where is the serene length, it is there and a dark place is not a dark place, only a 
white and red are black, only a yellow and green are blue, a pink is scarlet, a 
bow is every color. A line distinguishes it. A line just distinguishes it. 
A Mounted Umbrella 
WHAT was the use of not leaving it there where it would hang what was the use 
if there was no chance of ever seeing it come there and show that it was 
handsome and right in the way it showed it. The lesson is to learn that it does 
show it, that it shows it and that nothing, that there is nothing, that there is no 
more to do about it and just so much more is there plenty of reason for making 
an exchange. 
A Red Hat 
A dark grey, a very dark grey, a quite dark grey is monstrous ordinarily, it is so 
monstrous because there is no red in it. If red is in everything it is not necessary. 
Is that not an argument for any use of it and even so is there any place that is 
better, is there any place that has so much stretched out. 
America 
Once in English they said America. Was it English to them. 
Once they said Belgian. 
We like a fog. 
Do you for weather. 
Are we brave. 
Are we true. 
Have we the national colour. 
Can we stand ditches. 
Can we mean well. 
Do we talk together. 
Have we red cross. 
A great many people speak of feet. 
And socks. 
Cézanne 
The Irish lady can say, that to-day is every day. Caesar can say that 
every day is to-day and they say that every day is as they say. 
In this way we have a place to stay and he was not met because 
he was settled to stay. When I said settled I meant settled to stay. 
When I said settled to stay I meant settled to stay Saturday. In this 
way a mouth is a mouth. In this way if in as a mouth if in as a 
mouth where, if in as a mouth where and there. Believe they have 
water too. Believe they have that water too and blue when you see 
blue, is all blue precious too, is all that that is precious too is all 
that and they meant to absolve you. In this way Cézanne nearly did 
nearly in this way. Cézanne nearly did nearly did and nearly did. 
And was I surprised. Was I very surprised. Was I surprised. I was 
surprised and in that patient, are you patient when you find bees. 
Bees in a garden make a specialty of honey and so does honey. Honey 
and prayer. Honey and there. There where the grass can grow nearly 
four times yearly. 
Daughter 
Why is the world at peace. 
This may astonish you a little but when you realise how 
easily Mrs. Charles Bianco sells the work of American 
painters to American millionaires you will recognize that 
authorities are constrained to be relieved. Let me tell you a 
story. A painter loved a woman. A musician did not sing. 
A South African loved books. An American was a woman 
and needed help. Are Americans the same as incubators. 
But this is the rest of the story. He became an authority. 
From Four Saints In Three Acts 
Pigeons on the grass alas. 
Pigeons on the grass alas. 
Short longer grass short longer longer shorter yellow grass. Pigeons 
large pigeons on the shorter longer yellow grass alas pigeons on the 
grass. 
If they were not pigeons what were they. 
If they were not pigeons on the grass alas what were they. He had 
heard of a third and he asked about if it was a magpie in the sky. 
If a magpie in the sky on the sky can not cry if the pigeon on the 
grass alas can alas and to pass the pigeon on the grass alas and the 
magpie in the sky on the sky and to try and to try alas on the 
grass alas the pigeon on the grass the pigeon on the grass and alas. 
They might be very well they might be very well very well they might 
be. 
Let Lucy Lily Lily Lucy Lucy let Lucy Lucy Lily Lily Lily Lily 
Lily let Lily Lucy Lucy let Lily. Let Lucy Lily. 
Guillaume Apollinaire 
Give known or pin ware. 
Fancy teeth, gas strips. 
Elbow elect, sour stout pore, pore caesar, pour state at. 
Leave eye lessons I. Leave I. Lessons. I. Leave I lessons, I. 
Idem the Same: A Valentine to Sherwood Anderson
 I knew too that through them I knew too that he was through, I knew too 
that he threw them. I knew too that they were through, I knew too I knew too, I 
knew I knew them.
 I knew to them.
 If they tear a hunter through, if they tear through a hunter, if they tear 
through a hunt and a hunter, if they tear through different sizes of the six, the 
different sizes of the six which are these, a woman with a white package under 
one arm and a black package under the other arm and dressed in brown with a 
white blouse, the second Saint Joseph the third a hunter in a blue coat and black 
garters and a plaid cap, a fourth a knife grinder who is full faced and a very little 
woman with black hair and a yellow hat and an excellently smiling appropriate 
soldier. All these as you please.
 In the meantime examples of the same lily. In this way please have you 
rung. 
WHAT DO I SEE?
 A very little snail.
 A medium sized turkey.
 A small band of sheep.
 A fair orange tree.
 All nice wives are like that.
 Listen to them from here.
 Oh.
 You did not have an answer.
 Here.
 Yes. 
A VERY VALENTINE.
 Very fine is my valentine.
 Very fine and very mine.
 Very mine is my valentine very mine and very fine.
 Very fine is my valentine and mine, very fine very mine and mine is my 
valentine. 
WHY DO YOU FEEL DIFFERENTLY.
 Why do you feel differently about a very little snail and a big one.
 Why do you feel differently about a medium sized turkey and a very large 
one.
 Why do you feel differently about a small band of sheep and several sheep 
that are riding.
 Why do you feel differently about a fair orange tree and one that has 
blossoms as well.
 Oh very well.
 All nice wives are like that.
 To Be 
No Please. 
To Be 
They can please 
 Not to be 
Do they please. 
Not to be 
Do they not please 
Yes please. 
Do they please 
No please. 
Do they not please 
No please. 
Do they please. 
Please. 
If you please. 
And if you please. 
And if they please 
And they please. 
To be pleased 
Not to be pleased. 
Not to be displeased. 
To be pleased and to please. 
KNEELING 
One two three four five six seven eight nine and ten. 
 The tenth is a little one kneeling and giving away a rooster with this feeling.
 I have mentioned one, four five seven eight and nine.
 Two is also giving away an animal.
 Three is changed as to disposition.
 Six is in question if we mean mother and daughter, black and black caught 
her, and she offers to be three she offers it to me. 
That is very right and should come out below and just so. 
BUNDLES FOR THEM. 
A HISTORY OF GIVING BUNDLES.
 We are able to notice that each one in a way carried a bundle, they were not 
a trouble to them nor were they all bundles as some of them were chickens some 
of them pheasants some of them sheep and some of them bundles, they were 
not a trouble to them and then indeed we learned that it was the principal 
recreation and they were so arranged that they were not given away, and to-day 
they were given away.
 I will not look at them again.
 They will not look for them again.
 They have not seen them here again.
 They are in there and we hear them again.
 In which way are stars brighter than they are. When we have come to this 
decision. We mention many thousands of buds. And when I close my eyes I see 
them.
 If you hear her snore 
It is not before you love her 
 You love her so that to be her beau is very lovely
 She is sweetly there and her curly hair is very lovely
 She is sweetly here and I am very near and that is very lovely.
 She is my tender sweet and her little feet are stretched out well which is a 
treat and very lovely
 Her little tender nose is between her little eyes which close and are very 
lovely.
 She is very lovely and mine which is very lovely. 
ON HER WAY.
 If you can see why she feel that she kneels if you can see why he knows 
that he shows what he bestows, if you can see why they share what they share, 
need we question that there is no doubt that by this time if they had intended to 
come they would have sent some notice of such intention. She and they and 
indeed the decision itself is not early dissatisfaction. 
IN THIS WAY.
 Keys please, it is useless to alarm any one it is useless to alarm some one it 
is useless to be alarming and to get fertility in gardens in salads in heliotrope and 
in dishes. Dishes and wishes are mentioned and dishes and wishes are not 
capable of darkness. We like sheep. And so does he.
 LET US DESCRIBE.
 Let us describe how they went. It was a very windy night and the road 
although in excellent condition and extremely well graded has many turnings and 
although the curves are not sharp the rise is considerable. It was a very windy 
night and some of the larger vehicles found it more prudent not to venture. In 
consequence some of those who had planned to go were unable to do so. Many 
others did go and there was a sacrifice, of what shall we, a sheep, a hen, a cock, 
a village, a ruin, and all that and then that having been blessed let us bless it. 
Negligible Old Star 
NEGLIGIBLE old star. 
Pour even. 
It was a sad per cent. 
Does on sun day. 
Watch or water. 
So soon a moon or a old heavy press. 
New 
We knew. 
Anne to come. 
Anne to come. 
Be new. 
Be new too. 
Anne to come 
Anne to come 
Be new 
Be new too. 
And anew. 
Anne to come. 
Anne anew. 
Anne do come. 
Anne do come too, to come and to come not to come and as to 
and new, and new too. 
Anne do come. 
Anne knew. 
Anne to come. 
Anne anew. 
Anne to come. 
And as new. 
Anne to come to come too. 
Half of it. 
Was she 
Windows 
Was she 
Or mine 
Was she 
Or as she 
For she or she or sure. 
Enable her to say. 
And enable her to say. 
Or half way. 
Sitting down. 
Half sitting down. 
And another way. 
Their ships 
And please. 
As the other side. 
And another side 
Incoming 
Favorable and be fought. 
Adds to it. 
In half. 
Take the place of take the place of take the place of taking 
place. 
Take the place of in places. 
Take the place of taken in place of places. 
Take the place of it, she takes it in the place of it. In the way 
of arches architecture. 
Who has seen shown 
You do. 
Hoodoo. 
If can in countenance to countenance a countenance as in as 
seen. 
Change it. 
Not nearly so much. 
He had. 
She had. 
Had she. 
He had nearly very nearly as much. 
She had very nearly as much as had had. 
Had she. 
She had. 
Loose loosen, Loose losten to losten, to lose. 
Many. 
If a little if as little if as little as that. 
If as little as that, if it is as little as that that is if it is very nearly all of it, her 
dear her dear does not mention a ball at all. 
Actually. 
As to this. 
Actually as to this. 
High or do you do it. 
Actually as to this high or do you do it. 
Not how do you do it. 
Actually as to this. 
Not having been or not having been nor having been or not 
having been. 
Interrupted. 
All of this makes it unanxiously. 
Feel so. 
Add to it. 
As add to it. 
He. 
He. 
As add to it. 
As add to it. 
As he 
As he as add to it. 
He. 
As he 
Add to it. 
Not so far. 
Constantly as seen. 
Not as far as to mean. 
I mean I mean. 
Constantly. 
As far. 
So far. 
Forbore. 
He forbore. 
To forbear. 
Their forbears. 
Plainly. 
In so far. 
Instance. 
For instance. 
In so far. 
Red Faces 
Red flags the reason for pretty flags. 
And ribbons. 
Ribbons of flags 
And wearing material 
Reason for wearing material. 
Give pleasure. 
Can you give me the regions. 
The regions and the land. 
The regions and wheels. 
All wheels are perfect. 
Enthusiasm. 
Stanzas In Meditation 
She may count three little daisies very well 
By multiplying to either six nine or fourteen 
Or she can be well mentioned as twelve 
Which they may like which they can like soon 
Or more than ever which they wish as a button 
Just as much as they arrange which they wish 
Or they can attire where they need as which say 
Can they call a hat or a hat a day 
Made merry because it is so. 
Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza I 
I caught a bird which made a ball 
And they thought better of it. 
But it is all of which they taught 
That they were in a hurry yet 
In a kind of a way they meant it best 
That they should change in and on account 
But they must not stare when they manage 
Whatever they are occasionally liable to do 
It is often easy to pursue them once in a while 
And in a way there is no repose 
They like it as well as they ever did 
But it is very often just by the time 
That they are able to separate 
In which case in effect they could 
Not only be very often present perfectly 
In each way whichever they chose. 
All of this never matters in authority 
But this which they need as they are alike 
Or in an especial case they will fulfill 
Not only what they have at their instigation 
Made for it as a decision in its entirety 
Made that they minded as well as blinded 
Lengthened for them welcome in repose 
But which they open as a chance 
But made it be perfectly their allowance 
All which they antagonise as once for all 
Kindly have it joined as they mind 
Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Ii 
I think very well of Susan but I do not know her name 
I think very well of Ellen but which is not the same 
I think very well of Paul I tell him not to do so 
I think very well of Francis Charles but do I do so 
I think very well of Thomas but I do not not do so 
I think very well of not very well of William 
I think very well of any very well of him 
I think very well of him. 
It is remarkable how quickly they learn 
But if they learn and it is very remarkable how quickly they learn 
It makes not only but by and by 
And they may not only be not here 
But not there 
Which after all makes no difference 
After all this does not make any does not make any difference 
I add added it to it. 
I could rather be rather be here. 
Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Lxxxiii 
Why am I if I am uncertain reasons may inclose. 
Remain remain propose repose chose. 
I call carelessly that the door is open 
Which if they may refuse to open 
No one can rush to close. 
Let them be mine therefor. 
Everybody knows that I chose. 
Therefor if therefore before I close. 
I will therefore offer therefore I offer this. 
Which if I refuse to miss may be miss is mine. 
I will be well welcome when I come. 
Because I am coming. 
Certainly I come having come. 
These stanzas are done. 
Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza V 
Why can pansies be their aid or paths. 
He said paths she had said paths 
All like to do their best with half of the time 
A sweeter sweetener came and came in time 
Tell him what happened then only to go 
He nervous as you add only not only as they angry were 
Be kind to half the time that they shall say 
It is undoubtedly of them for them for every one any one 
They thought quietly that Sunday any day she might not come 
In half a way of coining that they wish it 
Let it be only known as please which they can underrate 
They try once to destroy once to destroy as often 
Better have it changed to pigeons now if the room smokes 
Not only if it does but happens to happens to have the room smoke all the time. 
In their way not in their way it can be all arranged 
Not now we are waiting. 
I have read that they wish if land is there 
Land is there if they wish land is there 
Yes hardly if they wish land is there 
It is no thought of enterprise there trying 
Might they claim as well as reclaim. 
Did she mean that she had nothing. 
We say he and I that we do not cry 
Because we have just seen him and called him back 
He meant to go away 
Once now I will tell all which they tell lightly. 
How were we when we met. 
All of which nobody not we know 
But it is so. They cannot be allied 
They can be close and chosen. 
Once in a while they wait. 
He likes it that there is no chance to misunderstand pansies. 
Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Xiii 
There may be pink with white or white with rose 
Or there may be white with rose and pink with mauve 
Or even there may be white with yellow and yellow with blue 
Or even if even it is rose with white and blue 
And so there is no yellow there but by accident. 
Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Xiv 
She need not be selfish but he may add 
They like my way it is partly mine 
In which case for them to foil or not please 
Come which they may they may in June. 
Not having all made plenty by their wish 
In their array all which they plan 
Should they be called covered by which 
It is fortunately their stay that they may 
In which and because it suits them to fan 
Not only not with clover but with may it matter 
That not only at a distance and with nearly 
That they ran for which they will not only plan 
But may be rain can be caught by the hills 
Just as well as they can with what they have 
And they may have it not only because of this 
But because they may be here. 
Or is it at all likely that they arrange what they like. 
Nohody knows just why they are or are not anxious 
While they sit and watch the horse which rests 
Not because he is tired but because they are waiting 
To say will they wait with them in their way 
Only to say it relieves them that they go away 
This is what they feel when they like it 
Most of them do or which 
It is very often their need not to be either 
Just why they are after all made quickly faster 
Just as they might do. 
It is what they did say when they mentioned it 
Or this. 
It is very well to go up and down and look more 
Than they could please that they see where 
It is better that they are there 
Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Xv 
Should they may be they might if they delight 
In why they must see it be there not only necessarily 
But which they might in which they might 
For which they might delight if they look there 
And they see there that they look there 
To see it be there which it is if it is 
Which may be where where it is 
If they do not occasion it to be different 
From what it is. 
In one direction there is the sun and the moon 
In the other direction there are cumulus clouds and the sky 
In the other direction there is why 
They look at what they see 
They look very long while they talk along 
And they may be said to see that at which they look 
Whenever there is no chance of its not being warmer 
Than if they wish which they were. 
They see that they have what is there may there 
Be there also what is to be there if they may care 
They care for it of course they care for it. 
Now only think three times roses green and blue 
And vegetables and pumpkins and pansies too 
Which they like as they are very likely not to be 
Reminded that it is more than ever necessary 
That they should never be surprised at any one time 
At just what they have been given by taking what they have 
Which they are very careful not to add with 
As they may easily indulge in the fragrance 
Not only of which but by which they know 
That they tell them so. 
Study Nature 
I do. 
Victim. 
Sales 
Met 
Wipe 
Her 
Less. 
Was a disappointment 
We say it. 
Study nature. 
Or 
Who 
Towering. 
Mispronounced 
Spelling. 
She 
Was 
Astonishing 
To 
No 
One 
For 
Fun 
Study from nature. 
I 
Am 
Pleased 
Thoroughly 
I 
Am 
Thoroughly 
Pleased. 
By. 
It. 
It is very likely. 
They said so. 
Oh. 
I want. 
To do. 
What 
Is 
Later 
To 
Be 
Refined. 
By 
Turning. 
Of turning around. 
I will wait. 
Susie Asado 
Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea. 
Susie Asado. 
Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea. 
Susie Asado. 
Susie Asado which is a told tray sure. 
A lean on the shoe this means slips slips hers. 
When the ancient light grey is clean it is yellow, it is a silver seller. 
This is a please this is a please there are the saids to jelly. 
These are the wets these say the sets to leave a crown to Incy. 
Incy is short of incubus. 
A pot. A pot is a beginning of a rare bit of trees. Trees tremble, 
the old vats are in bobbles, bobbles which shade and shove and 
render clean, render clean must. 
Drink pups. 
Drink pups drink pups lease a sash hold, see it shine and a bobolink 
has pins. It shows a nail. 
What is a nail. A nail is unison. 
Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea. 
Tender Buttons [a Box] 
A BOX. 
A large box is handily made of what is necessary to replace any substance. 
Suppose an example is necessary, the plainer it is made the more reason there is 
for some outward recognition that there is a result. 
A box is made sometimes and them to see to see to it neatly and to have the 
holes stopped up makes it necessary to use paper. 
A custom which is necessary when a box is used and taken is that a large part of 
the time there are three which have different connections. The one is on the 
table. The two are on the table. The three are on the table. The one, one is the 
same length as is shown by the cover being longer. The other is different there is 
more cover that shows it. The other is different and that makes the corners have 
the same shade the eight are in singular arrangement to make four necessary. 
Lax, to have corners, to be lighter than some weight, to indicate a wedding 
journey, to last brown and not curious, to be wealthy, cigarettes are established 
by length and by doubling. 
Left open, to be left pounded, to be left closed, to be circulating in summer and 
winter, and sick color that is grey that is not dusty and red shows, to be sure 
cigarettes do measure an empty length sooner than a choice in color. 
Winged, to be winged means that white is yellow and pieces pieces that are 
brown are dust color if dust is washed off, then it is choice that is to say it is 
fitting cigarettes sooner than paper. 
An increase why is an increase idle, why is silver cloister, why is the spark 
brighter, if it is brighter is there any result, hardly more than ever. 
Tender Buttons [a Chair] 
A CHAIR. 
A widow in a wise veil and more garments shows that shadows are even. It 
addresses no more, it shadows the stage and learning. A regular arrangement, 
the severest and the most preserved is that which has the arrangement not more 
than always authorised. 
A suitable establishment, well housed, practical, patient and staring, a suitable 
bedding, very suitable and not more particularly than complaining, anything 
suitable is so necessary. 
A fact is that when the direction is just like that, no more, longer, sudden and at 
the same time not any sofa, the main action is that without a blaming there is no 
custody. 
Practice measurement, practice the sign that means that really means a 
necessary betrayal, in showing that there is wearing. 
Hope, what is a spectacle, a spectacle is the resemblance between the circular 
side place and nothing else, nothing else. 
To choose it is ended, it is actual and more than that it has it certainly has the 
same treat, and a seat all that is practiced and more easily much more easily 
ordinarily. 
Pick a barn, a whole barn, and bend more slender accents than have ever been 
necessary, shine in the darkness necessarily. Actually not aching, actually not 
aching, a stubborn bloom is so artificial and even more than that, it is a 
spectacle, it is a binding accident, it is animosity and accentuation. 
If the chance to dirty diminishing is necessary, if it is why is there no complexion, 
why is there no rubbing, why is there no special protection. 
Tender Buttons [a Light In The Moon] 
A LIGHT IN THE MOON 
A light in the moon the only light is on Sunday. What was the sensible decision. 
The sensible decision was that notwithstanding many declarations and more 
music, not even notwithstanding the choice and a torch and a collection, 
notwithstanding the celebrating hat and a vacation and even more noise than 
cutting, notwithstanding Europe and Asia and being overbearing, not even 
notwithstanding an elephant and a strict occasion, not even withstanding more 
cultivation and some seasoning, not even with drowning and with the ocean 
being encircling, not even with more likeness and any cloud, not even with 
terrific sacrifice of pedestrianism and a special resolution, not even more likely to 
be pleasing. The care with which the rain is wrong and the green is wrong and 
the white is wrong, the care with which there is a chair and plenty of breathing. 
The care with which there is incredible justice and likeness, all this makes a 
magnificent asparagus, and also a fountain. 
Tender Buttons [A Long Dress] 
What is the current that makes machinery, that makes it crackle, what is the 
current that presents a long line and a necessary waist. What is this current. 
What is the wind, what is it. 
Where is the serene length, it is there and a dark place is not a dark place, only a 
white and red are black, only a yellow and green are blue, a pink is scarlet, a 
bow is every color. A line distinguishes it. A line just distinguishes it. 
Tender Buttons [a Plate] 
An occasion for a plate, an occasional resource is in buying and how soon does 
washing enable a selection of the same thing neater. If the party is small a clever 
song is in order. 
Plates and a dinner set of colored china. Pack together a string and enough with 
it to protect the centre, cause a considerable haste and gather more as it is 
cooling, collect more trembling and not any even trembling, cause a whole thing 
to be a church. 
A sad size a size that is not sad is blue as every bit of blue is precocious. A kind 
of green a game in green and nothing flat nothing quite flat and more round, 
nothing a particular color strangely, nothing breaking the losing of no little piece. 
A splendid address a really splendid address is not shown by giving a flower 
freely, it is not shown by a mark or by wetting. 
Cut cut in white, cut in white so lately. Cut more than any other and show it. 
Show it in the stem and in starting and in evening coming complication. 
A lamp is not the only sign of glass. The lamp and the cake are not the only sign 
of stone. The lamp and the cake and the cover are not the only necessity 
altogether. 
A plan a hearty plan, a compressed disease and no coffee, not even a card or a 
change to incline each way, a plan that has that excess and that break is the one 
that shows filling. 
Tender Buttons [apple] 
APPLE 
Apple plum, carpet steak, seed clam, colored wine, calm seen, cold cream, best 
shake, potato, potato and no no gold work with pet, a green seen is called bake 
and change sweet is bready, a little piece a little piece please. 
A little piece please. Cane again to the presupposed and ready eucalyptus tree, 
count out sherry and ripe plates and little corners of a kind of ham. This is use. 
Tender Buttons [chicken] 
CHICKEN. 
Pheasant and chicken, chicken is a peculiar third. 
CHICKEN. 
Alas a dirty word, alas a dirty third alas a dirty third, alas a dirty bird. 
CHICKEN. 
Alas a doubt in case of more go to say what it is cress. What is it. Mean. Why. 
Potato. Loaves. 
CHICKEN. 
Stick stick call then, stick stick sticking, sticking with a chicken. Sticking in a 
extra succession, sticking in. 
Tender Buttons [objects]	 
A CARAFE, THAT IS A BLIND GLASS. 
A kind in glass and a cousin, a spectacle and nothing strange a single hurt color 
and an arrangement in a system to pointing. All this and not ordinary, not 
unordered in not resembling. The difference is spreading. 
GLAZED GLITTER. 
Nickel, what is nickel, it is originally rid of a cover. 
The change in that is that red weakens an hour. The change has come. There is 
no search. But there is, there is that hope and that interpretation and sometime, 
surely any is unwelcome, sometime there is breath and there will be a sinecure 
and charming very charming is that clean and cleansing. Certainly glittering is 
handsome and convincing. 
There is no gratitude in mercy and in medicine. There can be breakages in 
Japanese. That is no programme. That is no color chosen. It was chosen 
yesterday, that showed spitting and perhaps washing and polishing. It certainly 
showed no obligation and perhaps if borrowing is not natural there is some use in 
giving. 
A SUBSTANCE IN A CUSHION. 
The change of color is likely and a difference a very little difference is prepared. 
Sugar is not a vegetable. 
Callous is something that hardening leaves behind what will be soft if there is a 
genuine interest in there being present as many girls as men. Does this change. 
It shows that dirt is clean when there is a volume. 
A cushion has that cover. Supposing you do not like to change, supposing it is 
very clean that there is no change in appearance, supposing that there is 
regularity and a costume is that any the worse than an oyster and an exchange. 
Come to season that is there any extreme use in feather and cotton. Is there not 
much more joy in a table and more chairs and very likely roundness and a place 
to put them. 
A circle of fine card board and a chance to see a tassel. 
What is the use of a violent kind of delightfulness if there is no pleasure in not 
getting tired of it. The question does not come before there is a quotation. In any 
kind of place there is a top to covering and it is a pleasure at any rate there is 
some venturing in refusing to believe nonsense. It shows what use there is in a 
whole piece if one uses it and it is extreme and very likely the little things could 
be dearer but in any case there is a bargain and if there is the best thing to do is 
to take it away and wear it and then be reckless be reckless and resolved on 
returning gratitude. 
Light blue and the same red with purple makes a change. It shows that there is 
no mistake. Any pink shows that and very likely it is reasonable. Very likely there 
should not be a finer fancy present. Some increase means a calamity and this is 
the best preparation for three and more being together. A little calm is so 
ordinary and in any case there is sweetness and some of that. 
A seal and matches and a swan and ivy and a suit. 
A closet, a closet does not connect under the bed. The band if it is white and 
black, the band has a green string. A sight a whole sight and a little groan 
grinding makes a trimming such a sweet singing trimming and a red thing not a 
round thing but a white thing, a red thing and a white thing. 
The disgrace is not in carelessness nor even in sewing it comes out out of the 
way. 
What is the sash like. The sash is not like anything mustard it is not like a same 
thing that has stripes, it is not even more hurt than that, it has a little top. 
A BOX. 
Out of kindness comes redness and out of rudeness comes rapid same question, 
out of an eye comes research, out of selection comes painful cattle. So then the 
order is that a white way of being round is something suggesting a pin and is it 
disappointing, it is not, it is so rudimentary to be analysed and see a fine 
substance strangely, it is so earnest to have a green point not to red but to point 
again. 
A PIECE OF COFFEE. 
More of double. 
A place in no new table. 
A single image is not splendor. Dirty is yellow. A sign of more in not mentioned. 
A piece of coffee is not a detainer. The resemblance to yellow is dirtier and 
distincter. The clean mixture is whiter and not coal color, never more coal color 
than altogether. 
The sight of a reason, the same sight slighter, the sight of a simpler negative 
answer, the same sore sounder, the intention to wishing, the same splendor, the 
same furniture. 
The time to show a message is when too late and later there is no hanging in a 
blight. 
A not torn rose-wood color. If it is not dangerous then a pleasure and more than 
any other if it is cheap is not cheaper. The amusing side is that the sooner there 
are no fewer the more certain is the necessity dwindled. Supposing that the case 
contained rose-wood and a color. Supposing that there was no reason for a 
distress and more likely for a number, supposing that there was no 
astonishment, is it not necessary to mingle astonishment. 
The settling of stationing cleaning is one way not to shatter scatter and 
scattering. The one way to use custom is to use soap and silk for cleaning. The 
one way to see cotton is to have a design concentrating the illusion and the 
illustration. The perfect way is to accustom the thing to have a lining and the 
shape of a ribbon and to be solid, quite solid in standing and to use heaviness in 
morning. It is light enough in that. It has that shape nicely. Very nicely may not 
be exaggerating. Very strongly may be sincerely fainting. May be strangely 
flattering. May not be strange in everything. May not be strange to. 
DIRT AND NOT COPPER. 
Dirt and not copper makes a color darker. It makes the shape so heavy and 
makes no melody harder. 
It makes mercy and relaxation and even a strength to spread a table fuller. 
There are more places not empty. They see cover. 
NOTHING ELEGANT. 
A charm a single charm is doubtful. If the red is rose and there is a gate 
surrounding it, if inside is let in and there places change then certainly something 
is upright. It is earnest. 
MILDRED'S UMBRELLA. 
A cause and no curve, a cause and loud enough, a cause and extra a loud clash 
and an extra wagon, a sign of extra, a sac a small sac and an established color 
and cunning, a slender grey and no ribbon, this means a loss a great loss a 
restitution. 
A METHOD OF A CLOAK. 
A single climb to a line, a straight exchange to a cane, a desperate adventure 
and courage and a clock, all this which is a system, which has feeling, which has 
resignation and success, all makes an attractive black silver. 
A RED STAMP. 
If lilies are lily white if they exhaust noise and distance and even dust, if they 
dusty will dirt a surface that has no extreme grace, if they do this and it is not 
necessary it is not at all necessary if they do this they need a catalogue. 
The House Was Just Twinkling In The Moon Light 
The house was just twinkling in the moon light, 
And inside it twinkling with delight, 
Is my baby bright. 
Twinkling with delight in the house twinkling 
with the moonlight, 
Bless my baby bless my baby bright, 
Bless my baby twinkling with delight, 
In the house twinkling in the moon light, 
Her hubby dear loves to cheer when he thinks 
and he always thinks when he knows and he always 
knows that his blessed baby wifey is all here and he 
is all hers, and sticks to her like burrs, blessed baby 
Yet Dish 
I 
Put a sun in Sunday, Sunday. 
Eleven please ten hoop. Hoop. 
Cousin coarse in coarse in soap. 
Cousin coarse in soap sew up. soap. 
Cousin coarse in sew up soap. 
II 
A lea ender stow sole lightly. 
Not a bet beggar. 
Nearer a true set jump hum, 
A lamp lander so seen poor lip. 
III 
Never so round. 
A is a guess and a piece. 
A is a sweet cent sender. 
A is a kiss slow cheese. 
A is for age jet. 
IV 
New deck stairs. 
Little in den little in dear den. 
V 
Polar pole. 
Dust winder. 
Core see. 
A bale a bale o a bale. 
VI 
Extravagant new or noise peal extravagant. 
VII 
S a glass. 
Roll ups. 
VIII 
Powder in wails, powder in sails, powder is all next to it is does 
wait sack rate all goals like chain in clear. 
IX 
Negligible old star. 
Pour even. 
It was a sad per cent. 
Does on sun day. 
Watch or water. 
So soon a moon or a old heavy press. 
X 
Pearl cat or cat or pill or pour check. 
New sit or little. 
New sat or little not a wad yet. 
Heavy toe heavy sit on head. 
XI 
Ex, ex, ex. 
Bull it bull it bull it bull it. 
Ex Ex Ex. 
XII 
Cousin plates pour a y shawl hood hair. 
No see eat. 
XIII 
They are getting, bad left log lope, should a court say stream, not 
a dare long beat a soon port. 
XIV 
Colored will he. 
Calamity. 
Colored will he 
Is it a soon. Is it a soon. Is it a soon. soon. Is it a soon. soon. 
XV 
Nobody’s ice. 
Nobody’s ice to be knuckles. 
Nobody’s nut soon. 
Nobody’s seven picks. 
Picks soap stacks. 
Six in set on seven in seven told, to top. 
XVI 
A spread chin shone. 
A set spread chin shone. 
XVII 
No people so sat. 
Not an eider. 
Not either. Not either either. 
XVIII 
Neglect, neglect use such. 
Use such a man. 
Neglect use such a man. 
Such some here. 
XIX 
Note tie a stem bone single pair so itching. 
XX 
Little lane in lay in a circular crest. 
XXI 
Peace while peace while toast. 
Paper eight paper eight or, paper eight ore white. 
XXII 
Coop pour. 
Never a single ham. 
Charlie. Charlie. 
XXIII 
Neglect or. 
A be wade. 
Earnest care lease. 
Least ball sup. 
XXIV 
Meal dread. 
Meal dread so or. 
Meal dread so or bounce. 
Meal dread so or bounce two sales. Meal dread so or bounce two 
sails. Not a rice. No nor a pray seat, not a little muscle, not a 
nor noble, not a cool right more than a song in every period 
of nails and pieces pieces places of places. 
XXV 
Neat know. 
Play in horizontal pet soap. 
XXVI 
Nice pose. 
Supper bell. 
Pull a rope pressed. 
Color glass. 
XXVII 
Nice oil pail. 
No gold go at. 
Nice oil pail. 
Near a paper lag sought. 
What is an astonishing won door. A please spoon. 
XXVIII 
Nice knee nick ear. 
Not a well pair in day. 
Nice knee neck core. 
What is a skin pour in day. 
XXIX 
Climb climb max. 
Hundred in wait. 
Paper cat or deliver 
XXX 
Little drawers of center. 
Neighbor of dot light. 
Shorter place to make a boom set. 
Marches to be bright. 
XXXI 
Suppose a do sat. 
Suppose a negligence. 
Suppose a cold character. 
XXXII 
Suppose a negligence. 
Suppose a sell. 
Suppose a neck tie. 
XXXIII 
Suppose a cloth cape. 
Suppose letter suppose let a paper. 
Suppose soon. 
XXXIV 
A prim a prim prize. 
A sea pin. 
A prim a prim prize 
A sea pin. 
XXXV 
Witness a way go. 
Witness a way go. Witness a way go. Wetness. 
Wetness. 
XXXVI 
Lessons lettuce. 
Let us peer let us polite let us pour, let us polite. Let us polite. 
XXXVII 
Neither is blessings bean. 
XXXVIII 
Dew Dew Drops. 
Leaves kindly Lasts. 
Dew Dew Drops. 
XXXIX 
A R. nuisance. 
Not a regular plate. 
Are, not a regular plate. 
XL 
Lock out sandy. 
Lock out sandy boot trees. 
Lock out sandy boot trees knit glass. 
Lock out sandy boot trees knit glass. 
XLI 
A R not new since. 
New since. 
Are new since bows less. 
XLII 
A jell cake. 
A jelly cake. 
A jelly cake. 
XLIII 
Peace say ray comb pomp 
Peace say ray comb pump 
Peace say ray comb pomp 
Peace say ray comb pomp. 
XLIV 
XLV 
Copying Copying it in. 
XLVI 
Never second scent never second scent in stand. Never second 
scent in stand box or show. Or show me sales. Or show me 
sales oak. Oak pet. Oak pet stall. 
XLVII 
Not a mixed stick or not a mixed stick or glass. Not a mend stone 
bender, not a mend stone bender or stain. 
XLVIII 
Polish polish is it a hand, polish is it a hand or all, or all poles sick, 
or all poles sick. 
XLIX 
Rush in rush in slice. 
L 
Little gem in little gem in an. Extra. 
LI 
In the between egg in, in the between egg or on. 
LII 
Leaves of gas, leaves of get a towel louder. 
LIII 
Not stretch. 
LIV 
Tea Fulls. 
Pit it pit it little saddle pear say. 
LV 
Let me see wheat air blossom. 
Let me see tea. 
LVI 
Nestle in glass, nestle in walk, nestle in fur a lining. 
LVII 
Pale eaten best seek. 
Pale eaten best seek, neither has met is a glance. 
LVIII 
Suppose it is a s. Suppose it is a seal. Suppose it is a recognised 
opera 
LIX 
Not a sell inch, not a boil not a never seeking cellar. 
LX 
Little gem in in little gem in an. Extra. 
LXI 
Catch as catch as coal up. 
LXII 
Necklaces, neck laces, necklaces, neck laces. 
LXIII 
Little in in in in. 
LXIV 
Next or Sunday, next or sunday check. 
LXV 
Wide in swim, wide in swim pansy. 
LXVI 
Next to hear next to hear old boat seak, old boat seak next to hear 
LXVII 
Ape pail ape pail to glow. 
LXVIII 
It was in on an each tuck. It was in on an each tuck. 
LXIX 
Wire lean string, wire lean string excellent miss on one pepper 
cute. Open so mister soil in to close not a see wind not seat 
glass. 
