<|startoftext|>
21 

I love my love with a v 
Because it is like that 
I love my love with a b 
Because I am beside that 
A king. 
I love my love with an a 
Because she is a queen 
I love my love and a a is the best of them 
Think well and be a king, 
Think more and think again 
I love my love with a dress and a hat 
I love my love and not with this or with that 
I love my love with a y because she is my bride 
I love her with a d because she is my love beside 
Thank you for being there 
Nobody has to care 
Thank you for being here 
Because you are not there. 

And with and without me which is and without she she can be late and then and 
how and all around we think and found that it is time to cry she and I. 




A Blue Coat 

A blue coat is guided guided away, guided and guided away, that is the particular 
color that is used for that length and not any width not even more than a 
shadow. 




A Frightful Release 

A BAG which was left and not only taken but turned away was not found. The 
place was shown to be very like the last time. A piece was not exchanged, not a 
bit of it, a piece was left over. The rest was mismanaged. 



<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

A Long Dress 

That is the current that makes machinery, that makes it crackle, what is the 
current that presents a long line and a necessary waist. What is this current. 

What is the wind, what is it. 

Where is the serene length, it is there and a dark place is not a dark place, only a 
white and red are black, only a yellow and green are blue, a pink is scarlet, a 
bow is every color. A line distinguishes it. A line just distinguishes it. 




A Mounted Umbrella 

WHAT was the use of not leaving it there where it would hang what was the use 
if there was no chance of ever seeing it come there and show that it was 
handsome and right in the way it showed it. The lesson is to learn that it does 
show it, that it shows it and that nothing, that there is nothing, that there is no 
more to do about it and just so much more is there plenty of reason for making 
an exchange. 




A Red Hat 

A dark grey, a very dark grey, a quite dark grey is monstrous ordinarily, it is so 
monstrous because there is no red in it. If red is in everything it is not necessary. 
Is that not an argument for any use of it and even so is there any place that is 
better, is there any place that has so much stretched out. 




America 

Once in English they said America. Was it English to them. 
Once they said Belgian. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
We like a fog. 
Do you for weather. 
Are we brave. 
Are we true. 
Have we the national colour. 
Can we stand ditches. 
Can we mean well. 
Do we talk together. 
Have we red cross. 
A great many people speak of feet. 
And socks. 




Cézanne 

The Irish lady can say, that to-day is every day. Caesar can say that 
every day is to-day and they say that every day is as they say. 
In this way we have a place to stay and he was not met because 
he was settled to stay. When I said settled I meant settled to stay. 
When I said settled to stay I meant settled to stay Saturday. In this 
way a mouth is a mouth. In this way if in as a mouth if in as a 
mouth where, if in as a mouth where and there. Believe they have 
water too. Believe they have that water too and blue when you see 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
blue, is all blue precious too, is all that that is precious too is all 
that and they meant to absolve you. In this way Cézanne nearly did 
nearly in this way. Cézanne nearly did nearly did and nearly did. 
And was I surprised. Was I very surprised. Was I surprised. I was 
surprised and in that patient, are you patient when you find bees. 
Bees in a garden make a specialty of honey and so does honey. Honey 
and prayer. Honey and there. There where the grass can grow nearly 
four times yearly. 




Daughter 

Why is the world at peace. 
This may astonish you a little but when you realise how 
easily Mrs. Charles Bianco sells the work of American 
painters to American millionaires you will recognize that 
authorities are constrained to be relieved. Let me tell you a 
story. A painter loved a woman. A musician did not sing. 
A South African loved books. An American was a woman 
and needed help. Are Americans the same as incubators. 
But this is the rest of the story. He became an authority. 




From Four Saints In Three Acts 

Pigeons on the grass alas. 
Pigeons on the grass alas. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Short longer grass short longer longer shorter yellow grass. Pigeons 
large pigeons on the shorter longer yellow grass alas pigeons on the 
grass. 
If they were not pigeons what were they. 
If they were not pigeons on the grass alas what were they. He had 
heard of a third and he asked about if it was a magpie in the sky. 
If a magpie in the sky on the sky can not cry if the pigeon on the 
grass alas can alas and to pass the pigeon on the grass alas and the 
magpie in the sky on the sky and to try and to try alas on the 
grass alas the pigeon on the grass the pigeon on the grass and alas. 
They might be very well they might be very well very well they might 
be. 
Let Lucy Lily Lily Lucy Lucy let Lucy Lucy Lily Lily Lily Lily 
Lily let Lily Lucy Lucy let Lily. Let Lucy Lily. 




Guillaume Apollinaire 

Give known or pin ware. 
Fancy teeth, gas strips. 
Elbow elect, sour stout pore, pore caesar, pour state at. 
Leave eye lessons I. Leave I. Lessons. I. Leave I lessons, I. 




Idem the Same: A Valentine to Sherwood Anderson

 I knew too that through them I knew too that he was through, I knew too 
that he threw them. I knew too that they were through, I knew too I knew too, I 
knew I knew them.

 I knew to them.

 If they tear a hunter through, if they tear through a hunter, if they tear 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
through a hunt and a hunter, if they tear through different sizes of the six, the 
different sizes of the six which are these, a woman with a white package under 
one arm and a black package under the other arm and dressed in brown with a 
white blouse, the second Saint Joseph the third a hunter in a blue coat and black 
garters and a plaid cap, a fourth a knife grinder who is full faced and a very little 
woman with black hair and a yellow hat and an excellently smiling appropriate 
soldier. All these as you please.

 In the meantime examples of the same lily. In this way please have you 
rung. 

WHAT DO I SEE?

 A very little snail.

 A medium sized turkey.

 A small band of sheep.

 A fair orange tree.

 All nice wives are like that.

 Listen to them from here.

 Oh.

 You did not have an answer.

 Here.

 Yes. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>


A VERY VALENTINE.

 Very fine is my valentine.

 Very fine and very mine.

 Very mine is my valentine very mine and very fine.

 Very fine is my valentine and mine, very fine very mine and mine is my 

valentine. 

WHY DO YOU FEEL DIFFERENTLY.

 Why do you feel differently about a very little snail and a big one.

 Why do you feel differently about a medium sized turkey and a very large 

one.

 Why do you feel differently about a small band of sheep and several sheep 
that are riding.

 Why do you feel differently about a fair orange tree and one that has 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

blossoms as well.

 Oh very well.

 All nice wives are like that.

 To Be 
No Please. 
To Be 
They can please 



 Not to be 
Do they please. 
Not to be 
Do they not please 
Yes please. 
Do they please 
No please. 
Do they not please 
No please. 
Do they please. 
Please. 
If you please. 
And if you please. 
And if they please 
And they please. 
To be pleased 
Not to be pleased. 
Not to be displeased. 
To be pleased and to please. 

KNEELING 
One two three four five six seven eight nine and ten. 



 The tenth is a little one kneeling and giving away a rooster with this feeling.

 I have mentioned one, four five seven eight and nine.
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

 Two is also giving away an animal.

 Three is changed as to disposition.

 Six is in question if we mean mother and daughter, black and black caught 

her, and she offers to be three she offers it to me. 
That is very right and should come out below and just so. 

BUNDLES FOR THEM. 

A HISTORY OF GIVING BUNDLES.

 We are able to notice that each one in a way carried a bundle, they were not 
a trouble to them nor were they all bundles as some of them were chickens some 
of them pheasants some of them sheep and some of them bundles, they were 
not a trouble to them and then indeed we learned that it was the principal 
recreation and they were so arranged that they were not given away, and to-day 
they were given away.

 I will not look at them again.

 They will not look for them again.

 They have not seen them here again.

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
 They are in there and we hear them again.

 In which way are stars brighter than they are. When we have come to this 
decision. We mention many thousands of buds. And when I close my eyes I see 
them.

 If you hear her snore 
It is not before you love her 



 You love her so that to be her beau is very lovely

 She is sweetly there and her curly hair is very lovely

 She is sweetly here and I am very near and that is very lovely.

 She is my tender sweet and her little feet are stretched out well which is a 
treat and very lovely

 Her little tender nose is between her little eyes which close and are very 
lovely.

 She is very lovely and mine which is very lovely. 

ON HER WAY.

 If you can see why she feel that she kneels if you can see why he knows 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
that he shows what he bestows, if you can see why they share what they share, 
need we question that there is no doubt that by this time if they had intended to 
come they would have sent some notice of such intention. She and they and 
indeed the decision itself is not early dissatisfaction. 

IN THIS WAY.

 Keys please, it is useless to alarm any one it is useless to alarm some one it 
is useless to be alarming and to get fertility in gardens in salads in heliotrope and 
in dishes. Dishes and wishes are mentioned and dishes and wishes are not 
capable of darkness. We like sheep. And so does he.

 LET US DESCRIBE.

 Let us describe how they went. It was a very windy night and the road 
although in excellent condition and extremely well graded has many turnings and 
although the curves are not sharp the rise is considerable. It was a very windy 
night and some of the larger vehicles found it more prudent not to venture. In 
consequence some of those who had planned to go were unable to do so. Many 
others did go and there was a sacrifice, of what shall we, a sheep, a hen, a cock, 
a village, a ruin, and all that and then that having been blessed let us bless it. 






Negligible Old Star 

NEGLIGIBLE old star. 
Pour even. 
It was a sad per cent. 
Does on sun day. 
Watch or water. 
So soon a moon or a old heavy press. 




New 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
We knew. 
Anne to come. 
Anne to come. 
Be new. 
Be new too. 
Anne to come 
Anne to come 
Be new 
Be new too. 
And anew. 
Anne to come. 
Anne anew. 
Anne do come. 
Anne do come too, to come and to come not to come and as to 
and new, and new too. 
Anne do come. 
Anne knew. 
Anne to come. 
Anne anew. 
Anne to come. 
And as new. 
Anne to come to come too. 
Half of it. 
Was she 
Windows 
Was she 
Or mine 
Was she 
Or as she 
For she or she or sure. 
Enable her to say. 
And enable her to say. 
Or half way. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Sitting down. 
Half sitting down. 
And another way. 
Their ships 
And please. 
As the other side. 



And another side 
Incoming 
Favorable and be fought. 
Adds to it. 
In half. 
Take the place of take the place of take the place of taking 
place. 
Take the place of in places. 
Take the place of taken in place of places. 
Take the place of it, she takes it in the place of it. In the way 
of arches architecture. 
Who has seen shown 
You do. 
Hoodoo. 
If can in countenance to countenance a countenance as in as 
seen. 
Change it. 
Not nearly so much. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
He had. 
She had. 
Had she. 
He had nearly very nearly as much. 
She had very nearly as much as had had. 
Had she. 
She had. 
Loose loosen, Loose losten to losten, to lose. 
Many. 
If a little if as little if as little as that. 
If as little as that, if it is as little as that that is if it is very nearly all of it, her 
dear her dear does not mention a ball at all. 
Actually. 
As to this. 
Actually as to this. 
High or do you do it. 
Actually as to this high or do you do it. 
Not how do you do it. 
Actually as to this. 
Not having been or not having been nor having been or not 
having been. 
Interrupted. 
All of this makes it unanxiously. 
Feel so. 



<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Add to it. 
As add to it. 
He. 
He. 
As add to it. 
As add to it. 
As he 
As he as add to it. 
He. 
As he 
Add to it. 
Not so far. 
Constantly as seen. 
Not as far as to mean. 
I mean I mean. 
Constantly. 
As far. 
So far. 
Forbore. 
He forbore. 
To forbear. 
Their forbears. 
Plainly. 
In so far. 
Instance. 
For instance. 
In so far. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>



Red Faces 

Red flags the reason for pretty flags. 
And ribbons. 
Ribbons of flags 
And wearing material 
Reason for wearing material. 
Give pleasure. 
Can you give me the regions. 
The regions and the land. 
The regions and wheels. 
All wheels are perfect. 
Enthusiasm. 




Stanzas In Meditation 

She may count three little daisies very well 
By multiplying to either six nine or fourteen 
Or she can be well mentioned as twelve 
Which they may like which they can like soon 
Or more than ever which they wish as a button 
Just as much as they arrange which they wish 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Or they can attire where they need as which say 
Can they call a hat or a hat a day 
Made merry because it is so. 




Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza I 

I caught a bird which made a ball 
And they thought better of it. 
But it is all of which they taught 
That they were in a hurry yet 
In a kind of a way they meant it best 
That they should change in and on account 
But they must not stare when they manage 
Whatever they are occasionally liable to do 
It is often easy to pursue them once in a while 
And in a way there is no repose 
They like it as well as they ever did 
But it is very often just by the time 
That they are able to separate 
In which case in effect they could 
Not only be very often present perfectly 
In each way whichever they chose. 
All of this never matters in authority 
But this which they need as they are alike 
Or in an especial case they will fulfill 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Not only what they have at their instigation 
Made for it as a decision in its entirety 
Made that they minded as well as blinded 
Lengthened for them welcome in repose 
But which they open as a chance 
But made it be perfectly their allowance 
All which they antagonise as once for all 
Kindly have it joined as they mind 




Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Ii 

I think very well of Susan but I do not know her name 
I think very well of Ellen but which is not the same 
I think very well of Paul I tell him not to do so 
I think very well of Francis Charles but do I do so 
I think very well of Thomas but I do not not do so 
I think very well of not very well of William 
I think very well of any very well of him 
I think very well of him. 
It is remarkable how quickly they learn 
But if they learn and it is very remarkable how quickly they learn 
It makes not only but by and by 
And they may not only be not here 
But not there 
Which after all makes no difference 
After all this does not make any does not make any difference 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
I add added it to it. 
I could rather be rather be here. 




Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Lxxxiii 

Why am I if I am uncertain reasons may inclose. 
Remain remain propose repose chose. 
I call carelessly that the door is open 
Which if they may refuse to open 
No one can rush to close. 
Let them be mine therefor. 
Everybody knows that I chose. 
Therefor if therefore before I close. 
I will therefore offer therefore I offer this. 
Which if I refuse to miss may be miss is mine. 
I will be well welcome when I come. 
Because I am coming. 
Certainly I come having come. 
These stanzas are done. 




Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza V 

Why can pansies be their aid or paths. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
He said paths she had said paths 
All like to do their best with half of the time 
A sweeter sweetener came and came in time 
Tell him what happened then only to go 
He nervous as you add only not only as they angry were 
Be kind to half the time that they shall say 
It is undoubtedly of them for them for every one any one 
They thought quietly that Sunday any day she might not come 
In half a way of coining that they wish it 
Let it be only known as please which they can underrate 
They try once to destroy once to destroy as often 
Better have it changed to pigeons now if the room smokes 
Not only if it does but happens to happens to have the room smoke all the time. 
In their way not in their way it can be all arranged 
Not now we are waiting. 
I have read that they wish if land is there 
Land is there if they wish land is there 
Yes hardly if they wish land is there 
It is no thought of enterprise there trying 
Might they claim as well as reclaim. 
Did she mean that she had nothing. 
We say he and I that we do not cry 
Because we have just seen him and called him back 
He meant to go away 
Once now I will tell all which they tell lightly. 
How were we when we met. 
All of which nobody not we know 
But it is so. They cannot be allied 
They can be close and chosen. 
Once in a while they wait. 
He likes it that there is no chance to misunderstand pansies. 




Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Xiii 

There may be pink with white or white with rose 
Or there may be white with rose and pink with mauve 
Or even there may be white with yellow and yellow with blue 
Or even if even it is rose with white and blue 
And so there is no yellow there but by accident. 


<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>


Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Xiv 

She need not be selfish but he may add 
They like my way it is partly mine 
In which case for them to foil or not please 
Come which they may they may in June. 
Not having all made plenty by their wish 
In their array all which they plan 
Should they be called covered by which 
It is fortunately their stay that they may 
In which and because it suits them to fan 
Not only not with clover but with may it matter 
That not only at a distance and with nearly 
That they ran for which they will not only plan 
But may be rain can be caught by the hills 
Just as well as they can with what they have 
And they may have it not only because of this 
But because they may be here. 
Or is it at all likely that they arrange what they like. 
Nohody knows just why they are or are not anxious 
While they sit and watch the horse which rests 
Not because he is tired but because they are waiting 
To say will they wait with them in their way 
Only to say it relieves them that they go away 
This is what they feel when they like it 
Most of them do or which 
It is very often their need not to be either 
Just why they are after all made quickly faster 
Just as they might do. 
It is what they did say when they mentioned it 
Or this. 
It is very well to go up and down and look more 
Than they could please that they see where 
It is better that they are there 




Stanzas In Meditation: Stanza Xv 

Should they may be they might if they delight 
In why they must see it be there not only necessarily 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
But which they might in which they might 
For which they might delight if they look there 
And they see there that they look there 
To see it be there which it is if it is 
Which may be where where it is 
If they do not occasion it to be different 
From what it is. 
In one direction there is the sun and the moon 
In the other direction there are cumulus clouds and the sky 
In the other direction there is why 
They look at what they see 
They look very long while they talk along 
And they may be said to see that at which they look 
Whenever there is no chance of its not being warmer 
Than if they wish which they were. 
They see that they have what is there may there 
Be there also what is to be there if they may care 
They care for it of course they care for it. 
Now only think three times roses green and blue 
And vegetables and pumpkins and pansies too 
Which they like as they are very likely not to be 
Reminded that it is more than ever necessary 
That they should never be surprised at any one time 
At just what they have been given by taking what they have 
Which they are very careful not to add with 
As they may easily indulge in the fragrance 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Not only of which but by which they know 
That they tell them so. 




Study Nature 

I do. 
Victim. 
Sales 
Met 
Wipe 
Her 
Less. 
Was a disappointment 
We say it. 
Study nature. 
Or 
Who 
Towering. 
Mispronounced 
Spelling. 
She 
Was 
Astonishing 
To 
No 
One 
For 
Fun 
Study from nature. 
I 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Am 
Pleased 
Thoroughly 
I 
Am 
Thoroughly 
Pleased. 
By. 
It. 
It is very likely. 
They said so. 
Oh. 
I want. 
To do. 



What 
Is 
Later 
To 
Be 
Refined. 
By 
Turning. 
Of turning around. 
I will wait. 




Susie Asado 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea. 
Susie Asado. 
Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea. 
Susie Asado. 
Susie Asado which is a told tray sure. 
A lean on the shoe this means slips slips hers. 
When the ancient light grey is clean it is yellow, it is a silver seller. 
This is a please this is a please there are the saids to jelly. 
These are the wets these say the sets to leave a crown to Incy. 
Incy is short of incubus. 
A pot. A pot is a beginning of a rare bit of trees. Trees tremble, 
the old vats are in bobbles, bobbles which shade and shove and 
render clean, render clean must. 
Drink pups. 
Drink pups drink pups lease a sash hold, see it shine and a bobolink 
has pins. It shows a nail. 
What is a nail. A nail is unison. 
Sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet tea. 




Tender Buttons [a Box] 

A BOX. 

A large box is handily made of what is necessary to replace any substance. 
Suppose an example is necessary, the plainer it is made the more reason there is 
for some outward recognition that there is a result. 

A box is made sometimes and them to see to see to it neatly and to have the 
holes stopped up makes it necessary to use paper. 

A custom which is necessary when a box is used and taken is that a large part of 
the time there are three which have different connections. The one is on the 
table. The two are on the table. The three are on the table. The one, one is the 
same length as is shown by the cover being longer. The other is different there is 
more cover that shows it. The other is different and that makes the corners have 
the same shade the eight are in singular arrangement to make four necessary. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Lax, to have corners, to be lighter than some weight, to indicate a wedding 
journey, to last brown and not curious, to be wealthy, cigarettes are established 
by length and by doubling. 

Left open, to be left pounded, to be left closed, to be circulating in summer and 
winter, and sick color that is grey that is not dusty and red shows, to be sure 
cigarettes do measure an empty length sooner than a choice in color. 

Winged, to be winged means that white is yellow and pieces pieces that are 
brown are dust color if dust is washed off, then it is choice that is to say it is 
fitting cigarettes sooner than paper. 

An increase why is an increase idle, why is silver cloister, why is the spark 
brighter, if it is brighter is there any result, hardly more than ever. 




Tender Buttons [a Chair] 

A CHAIR. 

A widow in a wise veil and more garments shows that shadows are even. It 
addresses no more, it shadows the stage and learning. A regular arrangement, 
the severest and the most preserved is that which has the arrangement not more 
than always authorised. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

A suitable establishment, well housed, practical, patient and staring, a suitable 
bedding, very suitable and not more particularly than complaining, anything 
suitable is so necessary. 

A fact is that when the direction is just like that, no more, longer, sudden and at 
the same time not any sofa, the main action is that without a blaming there is no 
custody. 

Practice measurement, practice the sign that means that really means a 
necessary betrayal, in showing that there is wearing. 

Hope, what is a spectacle, a spectacle is the resemblance between the circular 
side place and nothing else, nothing else. 

To choose it is ended, it is actual and more than that it has it certainly has the 
same treat, and a seat all that is practiced and more easily much more easily 
ordinarily. 

Pick a barn, a whole barn, and bend more slender accents than have ever been 
necessary, shine in the darkness necessarily. Actually not aching, actually not 
aching, a stubborn bloom is so artificial and even more than that, it is a 
spectacle, it is a binding accident, it is animosity and accentuation. 

If the chance to dirty diminishing is necessary, if it is why is there no complexion, 
why is there no rubbing, why is there no special protection. 




Tender Buttons [a Light In The Moon] 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

A LIGHT IN THE MOON 

A light in the moon the only light is on Sunday. What was the sensible decision. 
The sensible decision was that notwithstanding many declarations and more 
music, not even notwithstanding the choice and a torch and a collection, 
notwithstanding the celebrating hat and a vacation and even more noise than 
cutting, notwithstanding Europe and Asia and being overbearing, not even 
notwithstanding an elephant and a strict occasion, not even withstanding more 
cultivation and some seasoning, not even with drowning and with the ocean 
being encircling, not even with more likeness and any cloud, not even with 
terrific sacrifice of pedestrianism and a special resolution, not even more likely to 
be pleasing. The care with which the rain is wrong and the green is wrong and 
the white is wrong, the care with which there is a chair and plenty of breathing. 
The care with which there is incredible justice and likeness, all this makes a 
magnificent asparagus, and also a fountain. 




Tender Buttons [A Long Dress] 

What is the current that makes machinery, that makes it crackle, what is the 
current that presents a long line and a necessary waist. What is this current. 

What is the wind, what is it. 

Where is the serene length, it is there and a dark place is not a dark place, only a 
white and red are black, only a yellow and green are blue, a pink is scarlet, a 
bow is every color. A line distinguishes it. A line just distinguishes it. 




Tender Buttons [a Plate] 

An occasion for a plate, an occasional resource is in buying and how soon does 
washing enable a selection of the same thing neater. If the party is small a clever 
song is in order. 

Plates and a dinner set of colored china. Pack together a string and enough with 
it to protect the centre, cause a considerable haste and gather more as it is 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
cooling, collect more trembling and not any even trembling, cause a whole thing 
to be a church. 

A sad size a size that is not sad is blue as every bit of blue is precocious. A kind 
of green a game in green and nothing flat nothing quite flat and more round, 
nothing a particular color strangely, nothing breaking the losing of no little piece. 

A splendid address a really splendid address is not shown by giving a flower 
freely, it is not shown by a mark or by wetting. 

Cut cut in white, cut in white so lately. Cut more than any other and show it. 
Show it in the stem and in starting and in evening coming complication. 

A lamp is not the only sign of glass. The lamp and the cake are not the only sign 
of stone. The lamp and the cake and the cover are not the only necessity 
altogether. 

A plan a hearty plan, a compressed disease and no coffee, not even a card or a 
change to incline each way, a plan that has that excess and that break is the one 
that shows filling. 




Tender Buttons [apple] 

APPLE 

Apple plum, carpet steak, seed clam, colored wine, calm seen, cold cream, best 
shake, potato, potato and no no gold work with pet, a green seen is called bake 
and change sweet is bready, a little piece a little piece please. 

A little piece please. Cane again to the presupposed and ready eucalyptus tree, 
count out sherry and ripe plates and little corners of a kind of ham. This is use. 




Tender Buttons [chicken] 

CHICKEN. 
Pheasant and chicken, chicken is a peculiar third. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
CHICKEN. 
Alas a dirty word, alas a dirty third alas a dirty third, alas a dirty bird. 
CHICKEN. 
Alas a doubt in case of more go to say what it is cress. What is it. Mean. Why. 

Potato. Loaves. 
CHICKEN. 
Stick stick call then, stick stick sticking, sticking with a chicken. Sticking in a 

extra succession, sticking in. 



Tender Buttons [objects]	 

A CARAFE, THAT IS A BLIND GLASS. 

A kind in glass and a cousin, a spectacle and nothing strange a single hurt color 
and an arrangement in a system to pointing. All this and not ordinary, not 
unordered in not resembling. The difference is spreading. 

GLAZED GLITTER. 

Nickel, what is nickel, it is originally rid of a cover. 

The change in that is that red weakens an hour. The change has come. There is 
no search. But there is, there is that hope and that interpretation and sometime, 
surely any is unwelcome, sometime there is breath and there will be a sinecure 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
and charming very charming is that clean and cleansing. Certainly glittering is 
handsome and convincing. 

There is no gratitude in mercy and in medicine. There can be breakages in 
Japanese. That is no programme. That is no color chosen. It was chosen 
yesterday, that showed spitting and perhaps washing and polishing. It certainly 
showed no obligation and perhaps if borrowing is not natural there is some use in 
giving. 

A SUBSTANCE IN A CUSHION. 

The change of color is likely and a difference a very little difference is prepared. 
Sugar is not a vegetable. 

Callous is something that hardening leaves behind what will be soft if there is a 
genuine interest in there being present as many girls as men. Does this change. 
It shows that dirt is clean when there is a volume. 

A cushion has that cover. Supposing you do not like to change, supposing it is 
very clean that there is no change in appearance, supposing that there is 
regularity and a costume is that any the worse than an oyster and an exchange. 
Come to season that is there any extreme use in feather and cotton. Is there not 
much more joy in a table and more chairs and very likely roundness and a place 
to put them. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
A circle of fine card board and a chance to see a tassel. 



What is the use of a violent kind of delightfulness if there is no pleasure in not 
getting tired of it. The question does not come before there is a quotation. In any 
kind of place there is a top to covering and it is a pleasure at any rate there is 
some venturing in refusing to believe nonsense. It shows what use there is in a 
whole piece if one uses it and it is extreme and very likely the little things could 
be dearer but in any case there is a bargain and if there is the best thing to do is 
to take it away and wear it and then be reckless be reckless and resolved on 
returning gratitude. 

Light blue and the same red with purple makes a change. It shows that there is 
no mistake. Any pink shows that and very likely it is reasonable. Very likely there 
should not be a finer fancy present. Some increase means a calamity and this is 
the best preparation for three and more being together. A little calm is so 
ordinary and in any case there is sweetness and some of that. 

A seal and matches and a swan and ivy and a suit. 

A closet, a closet does not connect under the bed. The band if it is white and 
black, the band has a green string. A sight a whole sight and a little groan 
grinding makes a trimming such a sweet singing trimming and a red thing not a 
round thing but a white thing, a red thing and a white thing. 

The disgrace is not in carelessness nor even in sewing it comes out out of the 
way. 

What is the sash like. The sash is not like anything mustard it is not like a same 
thing that has stripes, it is not even more hurt than that, it has a little top. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

A BOX. 

Out of kindness comes redness and out of rudeness comes rapid same question, 
out of an eye comes research, out of selection comes painful cattle. So then the 
order is that a white way of being round is something suggesting a pin and is it 
disappointing, it is not, it is so rudimentary to be analysed and see a fine 
substance strangely, it is so earnest to have a green point not to red but to point 
again. 

A PIECE OF COFFEE. 

More of double. 



A place in no new table. 

A single image is not splendor. Dirty is yellow. A sign of more in not mentioned. 
A piece of coffee is not a detainer. The resemblance to yellow is dirtier and 
distincter. The clean mixture is whiter and not coal color, never more coal color 
than altogether. 

The sight of a reason, the same sight slighter, the sight of a simpler negative 
answer, the same sore sounder, the intention to wishing, the same splendor, the 
same furniture. 

The time to show a message is when too late and later there is no hanging in a 
blight. 

A not torn rose-wood color. If it is not dangerous then a pleasure and more than 
any other if it is cheap is not cheaper. The amusing side is that the sooner there 
are no fewer the more certain is the necessity dwindled. Supposing that the case 
contained rose-wood and a color. Supposing that there was no reason for a 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
distress and more likely for a number, supposing that there was no 
astonishment, is it not necessary to mingle astonishment. 

The settling of stationing cleaning is one way not to shatter scatter and 
scattering. The one way to use custom is to use soap and silk for cleaning. The 
one way to see cotton is to have a design concentrating the illusion and the 
illustration. The perfect way is to accustom the thing to have a lining and the 
shape of a ribbon and to be solid, quite solid in standing and to use heaviness in 
morning. It is light enough in that. It has that shape nicely. Very nicely may not 
be exaggerating. Very strongly may be sincerely fainting. May be strangely 
flattering. May not be strange in everything. May not be strange to. 

DIRT AND NOT COPPER. 

Dirt and not copper makes a color darker. It makes the shape so heavy and 
makes no melody harder. 

It makes mercy and relaxation and even a strength to spread a table fuller. 
There are more places not empty. They see cover. 

NOTHING ELEGANT. 

A charm a single charm is doubtful. If the red is rose and there is a gate 
surrounding it, if inside is let in and there places change then certainly something 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>


is upright. It is earnest. 

MILDRED'S UMBRELLA. 

A cause and no curve, a cause and loud enough, a cause and extra a loud clash 
and an extra wagon, a sign of extra, a sac a small sac and an established color 
and cunning, a slender grey and no ribbon, this means a loss a great loss a 
restitution. 

A METHOD OF A CLOAK. 

A single climb to a line, a straight exchange to a cane, a desperate adventure 
and courage and a clock, all this which is a system, which has feeling, which has 
resignation and success, all makes an attractive black silver. 

A RED STAMP. 

If lilies are lily white if they exhaust noise and distance and even dust, if they 
dusty will dirt a surface that has no extreme grace, if they do this and it is not 
necessary it is not at all necessary if they do this they need a catalogue. 




The House Was Just Twinkling In The Moon Light 

The house was just twinkling in the moon light, 
And inside it twinkling with delight, 
Is my baby bright. 
Twinkling with delight in the house twinkling 
with the moonlight, 
Bless my baby bless my baby bright, 
Bless my baby twinkling with delight, 
In the house twinkling in the moon light, 
Her hubby dear loves to cheer when he thinks 
and he always thinks when he knows and he always 
knows that his blessed baby wifey is all here and he 
is all hers, and sticks to her like burrs, blessed baby 




<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Yet Dish 

I 
Put a sun in Sunday, Sunday. 
Eleven please ten hoop. Hoop. 
Cousin coarse in coarse in soap. 
Cousin coarse in soap sew up. soap. 
Cousin coarse in sew up soap. 

II 
A lea ender stow sole lightly. 
Not a bet beggar. 
Nearer a true set jump hum, 
A lamp lander so seen poor lip. 

III 
Never so round. 
A is a guess and a piece. 
A is a sweet cent sender. 
A is a kiss slow cheese. 
A is for age jet. 

IV 
New deck stairs. 
Little in den little in dear den. 

V 
Polar pole. 
Dust winder. 
Core see. 
A bale a bale o a bale. 

VI 
Extravagant new or noise peal extravagant. 

VII 
S a glass. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Roll ups. 

VIII 
Powder in wails, powder in sails, powder is all next to it is does 



wait sack rate all goals like chain in clear. 

IX 
Negligible old star. 
Pour even. 
It was a sad per cent. 
Does on sun day. 
Watch or water. 
So soon a moon or a old heavy press. 

X 
Pearl cat or cat or pill or pour check. 
New sit or little. 
New sat or little not a wad yet. 
Heavy toe heavy sit on head. 

XI 
Ex, ex, ex. 
Bull it bull it bull it bull it. 
Ex Ex Ex. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

XII 
Cousin plates pour a y shawl hood hair. 
No see eat. 

XIII 
They are getting, bad left log lope, should a court say stream, not 
a dare long beat a soon port. 

XIV 
Colored will he. 
Calamity. 
Colored will he 
Is it a soon. Is it a soon. Is it a soon. soon. Is it a soon. soon. 

XV 
Nobody’s ice. 
Nobody’s ice to be knuckles. 
Nobody’s nut soon. 
Nobody’s seven picks. 
Picks soap stacks. 



Six in set on seven in seven told, to top. 

XVI 
A spread chin shone. 
A set spread chin shone. 

XVII 
No people so sat. 
Not an eider. 
Not either. Not either either. 

XVIII 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Neglect, neglect use such. 
Use such a man. 
Neglect use such a man. 
Such some here. 

XIX 
Note tie a stem bone single pair so itching. 

XX 
Little lane in lay in a circular crest. 

XXI 
Peace while peace while toast. 
Paper eight paper eight or, paper eight ore white. 

XXII 
Coop pour. 
Never a single ham. 
Charlie. Charlie. 

XXIII 
Neglect or. 
A be wade. 
Earnest care lease. 
Least ball sup. 

XXIV 
Meal dread. 
Meal dread so or. 
Meal dread so or bounce. 



Meal dread so or bounce two sales. Meal dread so or bounce two 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
sails. Not a rice. No nor a pray seat, not a little muscle, not a 
nor noble, not a cool right more than a song in every period 
of nails and pieces pieces places of places. 

XXV 
Neat know. 
Play in horizontal pet soap. 

XXVI 
Nice pose. 
Supper bell. 
Pull a rope pressed. 
Color glass. 

XXVII 
Nice oil pail. 
No gold go at. 
Nice oil pail. 
Near a paper lag sought. 
What is an astonishing won door. A please spoon. 

XXVIII 
Nice knee nick ear. 
Not a well pair in day. 
Nice knee neck core. 
What is a skin pour in day. 

XXIX 
Climb climb max. 
Hundred in wait. 
Paper cat or deliver 

XXX 

Little drawers of center. 
Neighbor of dot light. 
Shorter place to make a boom set. 
Marches to be bright. 

XXXI 
Suppose a do sat. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>


Suppose a negligence. 
Suppose a cold character. 

XXXII 
Suppose a negligence. 
Suppose a sell. 
Suppose a neck tie. 

XXXIII 
Suppose a cloth cape. 
Suppose letter suppose let a paper. 
Suppose soon. 

XXXIV 
A prim a prim prize. 
A sea pin. 
A prim a prim prize 
A sea pin. 

XXXV 
Witness a way go. 
Witness a way go. Witness a way go. Wetness. 
Wetness. 

XXXVI 
Lessons lettuce. 
Let us peer let us polite let us pour, let us polite. Let us polite. 

XXXVII 
Neither is blessings bean. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

XXXVIII 
Dew Dew Drops. 
Leaves kindly Lasts. 
Dew Dew Drops. 

XXXIX 
A R. nuisance. 
Not a regular plate. 
Are, not a regular plate. 

XL 



Lock out sandy. 
Lock out sandy boot trees. 
Lock out sandy boot trees knit glass. 
Lock out sandy boot trees knit glass. 

XLI 
A R not new since. 
New since. 
Are new since bows less. 

XLII 
A jell cake. 
A jelly cake. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
A jelly cake. 

XLIII 
Peace say ray comb pomp 
Peace say ray comb pump 
Peace say ray comb pomp 
Peace say ray comb pomp. 

XLIV 
XLV 
Copying Copying it in. 

XLVI 
Never second scent never second scent in stand. Never second 
scent in stand box or show. Or show me sales. Or show me 
sales oak. Oak pet. Oak pet stall. 

XLVII 
Not a mixed stick or not a mixed stick or glass. Not a mend stone 
bender, not a mend stone bender or stain. 

XLVIII 
Polish polish is it a hand, polish is it a hand or all, or all poles sick, 
or all poles sick. 

XLIX 
Rush in rush in slice. 

L 



Little gem in little gem in an. Extra. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
LI 
In the between egg in, in the between egg or on. 

LII 
Leaves of gas, leaves of get a towel louder. 

LIII 
Not stretch. 

LIV 
Tea Fulls. 
Pit it pit it little saddle pear say. 

LV 
Let me see wheat air blossom. 
Let me see tea. 

LVI 
Nestle in glass, nestle in walk, nestle in fur a lining. 

LVII 
Pale eaten best seek. 
Pale eaten best seek, neither has met is a glance. 

LVIII 
Suppose it is a s. Suppose it is a seal. Suppose it is a recognised 
opera 

LIX 
Not a sell inch, not a boil not a never seeking cellar. 

LX 
Little gem in in little gem in an. Extra. 

LXI 
Catch as catch as coal up. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

LXII 
Necklaces, neck laces, necklaces, neck laces. 



LXIII 

Little in in in in. 

LXIV 
Next or Sunday, next or sunday check. 

LXV 
Wide in swim, wide in swim pansy. 

LXVI 
Next to hear next to hear old boat seak, old boat seak next to hear 

LXVII 
Ape pail ape pail to glow. 

LXVIII 
It was in on an each tuck. It was in on an each tuck. 

LXIX 
Wire lean string, wire lean string excellent miss on one pepper 
cute. Open so mister soil in to close not a see wind not seat 
glass. 




A Voice from the Fireplace 

Like a windup denture in a joke store 
fate approaches, leans quietly. Let's see . . . 
There was moreover meaning in the last clause, 
meaning we couldn't equate 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
from what was happening to us down the block. 
We approached with some hesitancy: 
Let "I dare not" wait upon "I would." 
Wasn't it April? Weren't things more likely to last 
in this or any season? Rhymes we like. 
More than rhythm, they provide a life preserver 
for embarrassing sorties. Um, someday we'll be grown up too, 
the desk lights not cancel the barge 
as it approaches the corner of avenues. 

Well, we 
sweated that out. It amounts to self-importance. 
Whether the sea is a vernacular one 
only heroes can describe. Why don't you pluck me one? 
Seems they all rushed to the other side 
of the deck, causing alarm. 
Wind shriveled the rags that were left. 
Hold on a minute, we'll get you aloft. 
No sense taking up time with vellum sunsets, 
he hears, and cannot stay. The whitish, gluey smell 
of the forest imbibes our earnings in a dream. 
Egg whites dry at room temperature. 

In my mature moments I was robotic like you 
but never canceled my interest. 
We all attempt starting out, yet few undergo 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
the first few days of orientation lightly. 
Which is funny, I mean with so many around to project 
enlightenment or entertainment. If you live 
in a wren house you'll quickly understand what I mean. 

That, needless to say, was the last time 
I heard from them. I continue to get their flyers 
in the mail but the project remains uninhabited. 
Flowers and goats cram the entrance with something 




you can see over. The orange sea propels itself 
lightly forward, ever in quest of spectators, 
but you can only do just so much in the way of self-formation. 
I hadn't expected it to be otherwise, 
yet it doesn't seem right. Neither is it unjust, 
only pro forma. Nights imply seasons 
and much in the way of impish narrative, while in daylight 
it's a matter of getting flush with the pavement. 

Don't forget to check every box 
on the front door and leave change for the milkman. 
Too bad they spotted us. Like I say, 
no jury will ever convict he or I. Off you go then. 
An egg is a puzzle, a tree a piece of that puzzle. 
I've had a pleasant but uneven time. 
My helpmates could aver as much. Let us know 
how much we owe you. The balloon is ascending 
above ferns, teacup chimneys, striped stockings. 
So long training wheels. I'm gone for three weeks at a time. 




A Worldly Country 

Not the smoothness, not the insane clocks on the square, 
the scent of manure in the municipal parterre, 
not the fabrics, the sullen mockery of Tweety Bird, 
not the fresh troops that needed freshening up. If it occurred 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
in real time, it was OK, and if it was time in a novel 
that was OK too. From palace and hovel 
the great parade flooded avenue and byway 
and turnip fields became just another highway. 
Leftover bonbons were thrown to the chickens 
and geese, who squawked like the very dickens. 
There was no peace in the bathroom, none in the china closet 
or the banks, where no one came to make a deposit. 
In short all hell broke loose that wide afternoon. 
By evening all was calm again. A crescent moon 
hung in the sky like a parrot on its perch. 
Departing guests smiled and called, 'See you in church!' 
For night, as usual, knew what it was doing, 
providing sleep to offset the great ungluing 
that tomorrow again would surely bring. 
As I gazed at the quiet rubble, one thing 
puzzled me: What had happened, and why? 
One minute we were up to our necks in rebelliousness, 
and the next, peace had subdued the ranks of hellishness. 

So often it happens that the time we turn around in 
soon becomes the shoal our pathetic skiff will run aground in. 
And just as waves are anchored to the bottom of the sea 
we must reach the shallows before God cuts us free. 




Alms for the Beekeeper 

He makes better errors that way. 
Pass it around at breakfast: 
the family and all, down there with a proximate sense of power, 
lawyering up. Less log-heavy, your text-strategy 
beat out other options, is languid. 
Duets in the dust start up, 
begin. Again. 

He entered the firm at night. 
The 26th is a Monday. 




<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
And Ut Pictura Poesis Is Her Name 

You can't say it that way any more. 
Bothered about beauty you have to 
Come out into the open, into a clearing, 
And rest. Certainly whatever funny happens to you 
Is OK. To demand more than this would be strange 
Of you, you who have so many lovers, 
People who look up to you and are willing 
To do things for you, but you think 
It's not right, that if they really knew you . . . 
So much for self-analysis. Now, 
About what to put in your poem-painting: 
Flowers are always nice, particularly delphinium. 
Names of boys you once knew and their sleds, 
Skyrockets are good—do they still exist? 
There are a lot of other things of the same quality 
As those I've mentioned. Now one must 
Find a few important words, and a lot of low-keyed, 
Dull-sounding ones. She approached me 
About buying her desk. Suddenly the street was 
Bananas and the clangor of Japanese instruments. 
Humdrum testaments were scattered around. His head 
Locked into mine. We were a seesaw. Something 
Ought to be written about how this affects 
You when you write poetry: 
The extreme austerity of an almost empty mind 
Colliding with the lush, Rousseau-like foliage of its desire to communicate 
Something between breaths, if only for the sake 
Of others and their desire to understand you and desert you 
For other centers of communication, so that understanding 
May begin, and in doing so be undone. 




Anticipated Stranger 

The bruise will stop by later. 
For now, the pain pauses in its round, 
notes the time of day, the patient's temperature, 
leaves a memo for the surrogate: What the hell 
did you think you were doing? I mean . . . 
Oh well, less said the better, they all say. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
I'll post this at the desk. 

God will find the pattern and break it. 




Blueprints and Others 

The man across the street seems happy, 
or pleased. Sometimes a porter evades the grounds. 
After you play a lot with the military 
you are my own best customer. 

I've done five of that. 
Make my halloween. Ask me not to say it. 
The old man wants to see you?—?now. 
That's all right, but find your own. 
Do you want to stop using these? 

Last winning people told me to sit on the urinal. 
Do not put on others what you can put on yourself. 
How to be in the city my loved one. 
Men in underwear????...????A biography field 
like where we live in the mountains, 

a falling. Yes I know you have. 
Troves of merchandise, you know, "boomer buzz." 
Hillbilly sculptures of the outside. 
(They won't see anybody.) 




Boundary Issues 

Here in life, they would understand. 
How could it be otherwise? We had groped too, 
unwise, till the margin began to give way, 
at which point all was sullen, or lost, or both. 

Now it was time, and there was nothing for it. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
We had a good meal, I and my friend, 
slurping from the milk pail, grabbing at newer vegetables. 
Yet life was a desert. Come home, in good faith. 
You can still decide to. But it wanted warmth. 
Otherwise ruse and subtlety would become impossible 
in the few years or hours left to us. "Yes, but . . ." 
The iconic beggars shuffled off too. I told you, 
once a breach emerges it will become a chasm 
before anyone's had a chance to waver. A dispute 
on the far side of town erupts into a war 
in no time at all, and ends as abruptly. The tendency to heal 
sweeps all before it, into the arroyo, the mine shaft, 
into whatever pocket you were contemplating. And the truly lost 
make up for it. It's always us that has to pay. 

I have a suggestion to make: draw the sting out 
as probingly as you please. Plaster the windows over 
with wood pulp against the noon gloom proposing its enigmas, 
its elixirs. Banish truth-telling. 
That's the whole point, as I understand it. 
Each new investigation rebuilds the urgency, 
like a sand rampart. And further reflection undermines it, 
causing its eventual collapse. We could see all that 
from a distance, as on a curving abacus, in urgency mode 
from day one, but by then dispatches hardly mattered. 
It was camaraderie, or something like it, that did, 
poring over us like we were papyri, hoping to find one 
correct attitude sketched on the gaslit air, night's friendly takeover. 




Bunch of Stuff 

To all events I squirted you 
knowing this not to be this came to pass 
when we were out and it looked good. 
Why wouldn't you want a fresh piece 
of outlook to stand in down the years? 
See, your house, a former human energy construction, 
crashed with us for a few days in May 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
and sure enough, the polar inscape 
brought about some easier poems, 
which I guessed was a good thing. At least 
some of us were relaxed, Steamboat Bill included. 

He didn't drink nothing. 
It was one thing 
to be ready for their challenge, quite another to accept it. 
And if I had a piece of advice for you, this is it: 
Poke fun at balm, then suffer lethargy 
to irradiate its shallow flood in the new packaging 
our enemies processed. They should know. 

The Gold Dust Twins never stopped supplicating Hoosiers 
to limn the trail. There's no Shakespeare. 
Through the window, Casanova. 
Couldn't get to sleep in the dumb incident 
of those days, crimping the frozen feet of Lincoln. 




By Guess and by Gosh 

O awaken with me 
the inquiring goodbyes. 
Ooh what a messy business 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
a tangle and a muddle 
(and made it seem quite interesting). 

He ticks them off: 
leisure top, 
a different ride home, 
whispering, in a way, 
whispered whiskers, 
so many of the things you have to share. 

But I was getting on, 
and that's what you don't need. 
I'm certainly sorry about scaring your king, 
if indeed that's what happened to him. 
You get Peanuts and War and Peace, 
some in rags, some in jags, some in 
velvet gown. They want 
the other side of the printing plant. 

There were concerns. 
Say hi to jock itch, leadership principles, 
urinary incompetence. 
Take that, perfect pitch. 
And say a word for the president, 
for the scholar magazines, papers, a streaming. 
Then you are interested in poetry. 




Chinese Whispers 

And in a little while we broke under the strain: 
suppurations ad nauseam, the wanting to be taller, 
though it‘s simply about being mysterious, i.e., not taller, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
like any tree in any forest.

 Mute, the pancake describes you. 
It had tiny roman numerals embedded in its rim. 
It was a pancake clock. They had 'em in those days, 
always getting smaller, which is why they finally became extinct. 
It was a hundred years before anyone noticed.

 The governor general 
called it "sinuous." But we, we had other names for it, 
knew it was going to be around for a long time, 
even though extinct. And sure as shillelaghs fall from trees 
onto frozen doorsteps, it came round again 
when all memory of it had been expunged

 from the common brain. 
Everybody wants to try one of those new pancake clocks. 
A boyfriend in the next town had one 
but conveniently forgot to bring it over each time we invited him. 
Finally the rumors grew more fabulous than the real thing: 
I hear they are encrusted with tangles of briar rose,

 so dense 
not even a prince seeking the Sleeping Beauty could get inside. 
What's more, there are more of them than when they were extinct, 
yet the prices keep on rising. They have them in the Hesperides 
and in shantytowns on the edge of the known world, 
blue with cold. All downtowns used to feature them.

 Camera obscuras, 
too, were big that year. But why is it that with so many people 
who want to know what a shout is about, nobody can find the original recipe? 
All too soon, no one cares. We go back to doing little things for each other, 
pasting stamps together to form a tiny train track, and other, 
less noticeable things. And the past is forgotten till next time. 
How to describe the years? Some were like blocks of the palest halvah, 
careless of being touched. Some took each others' trash out, 
put each other's eyes out. So many got thrown out 
before anyone noticed, that it was like a chiaroscuro
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

 of collapsing clouds. 
How I longed to visit you again in that old house! But you were deaf, 



or dead. Our letters crossed. A motorboat was ferrying me out past 
the reef, people on shore looked like dolls fingering stuffs.

 More 
keeps coming out, about the dogs I mean. Surely a simple embrace 
from an itinerant fish would have been spurned at certain periods. Not now. 
There is a famine of years in the land, the women are beautiful, 
but prematurely old and worn. It doesn't get better. Rocks half-buried 
in bands of sand, and spontaneous execrations.

 I yell to the ship's front door, 
wanting to be taller, and somewhere in the middle all this gets lost. 
I was a phantom for a day. My friends carried me around with them. 

It always turns out that much is salvageable.

 Chicken coops 
haven't floated away on the flood. Lacemakers are back in business 
with a vengeance. All the locksmiths had left town during the night. 
It happened to be a beautiful time of season, spring or fall, 
the air was digestible, the fish tied in love-knots 
on their gurneys. Yes, and journeys 

were palpable too: Someone had spoken of saving appearances 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
and the walls were just a little too blue in mid-morning. 
Was there ever such a time? I'd like to handle you, 
bruise you with kisses for it, yet something always stops me short: 
the knowledge that this isn‘t history,

 no matter how many 
times we keep mistaking it for the present, that headlines 
trumpet each day. But behind the unsightly school building, now a pickle 
warehouse, the true nature of things is known, is not overrided: 
Yours is a vote like any other. And there is fraud at the ballot boxes, 
stuffed with lace valentines and fortunes from automatic scales, 
dispensed with a lofty kind of charity, as though this could matter 
to us, these tunes

 carried by the wind 
from a barrel organ several leagues away. No, this is not the time 
to reveal your deception to us. Wait till rain and old age 
have softened us up a little more.

 Then we'll see how extinct 
the various races have become, how the years stand up 
to their descriptions, no matter how misleading, 
and how long the disbanded armies stay around. I must congratulate you 
on your detective work, for I am a connoisseur 



of close embroidery, though I don't have a diploma to show for it. 

The trees, the barren trees, have been described more than once. 
Always they are taller, it seems, and the river passes them 
without noticing. We, too, are taller, 
our ceilings higher, our walls more tinctured 
with telling frescoes, our dooryards both airier and vaguer, 
according as time passes and weaves its minute deceptions in and out, 
a secret thread. 
Peace is a full stop. 
And though we had some chance of slipping past the blockade, 
now only time will consent to have anything to do with us, 
for what purposes we do not know. 


<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>


Daffy Duck In Hollywood 

Something strange is creeping across me. 
La Celestina has only to warble the first few bars 
Of "I Thought about You" or something mellow from 
Amadigi di Gaula for everything--a mint-condition can 
Of Rumford's Baking Powder, a celluloid earring, Speedy 
Gonzales, the latest from Helen Topping Miller's fertile 
Escritoire, a sheaf of suggestive pix on greige, deckle-edged 
Stock--to come clattering through the rainbow trellis 
Where Pistachio Avenue rams the 2300 block of Highland 
Fling Terrace. He promised he'd get me out of this one, 
That mean old cartoonist, but just look what he's 
Done to me now! I scarce dare approach me mug's attenuated 
Reflection in yon hubcap, so jaundiced, so deacute;confit 
Are its lineaments--fun, no doubt, for some quack phrenologist's 
Fern-clogged waiting room, but hardly what you'd call 
Companionable. But everything is getting choked to the point of 
Silence. Just now a magnetic storm hung in the swatch of sky 
Over the Fudds' garage, reducing it--drastically-To 
the aura of a plumbago-blue log cabin on 
A Gadsden Purchase commemorative cover. Suddenly all is 
Loathing. I don't want to go back inside any more. You meet 
Enough vague people on this emerald traffic-island--no, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Not people, comings and goings, more: mutterings, splatterings, 
The bizarrely but effectively equipped infantries of 
happy-go-nutty 
Vegetal jacqueries, plumed, pointed at the little 
White cardboard castle over the mill run. "Up 
The lazy river, how happy we could be?" 
How will it end? That geranium glow 
Over Anaheim's had the riot act read to it by the 
Etna-size firecracker that exploded last minute into 
A carte du Tendre in whose lower right-hand corner 
(Hard by the jock-itch sand-trap that skirts 
The asparagus patch of algolagnic nuits blanches) Amadis 
Is cozening the Princesse de Cleves into a midnight 
micturition spree 
On the Tamigi with the Wallets (Walt, Blossom, and little 
Sleezix) on a lameacute; barge "borrowed" from Ollie 
Of the Movies' dread mistress of the robes. Wait! 



I have an announcement! This wide, tepidly meandering, 
Civilized Lethe (one can barely make out the maypoles 
And chacirc;lets de neacute;cessitecirc; on its sedgy shore) 
leads to Tophet, that 
Landfill-haunted, not-so-residential resort from which 
Some travellers return! This whole moment is the groin 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Of a borborygmic giant who even now 
Is rolling over on us in his sleep. Farewell bocages, 
Tanneries, water-meadows. The allegory comes unsnarled 
Too soon; a shower of pecky acajou harpoons is 
About all there is to be noted between tornadoes. I have 
Only my intermittent life in your thoughts to live 
Which is like thinking in another language. Everything 
Depends on whether somebody reminds you of me. 
That this is a fabulation, and that those "other times" 
Are in fact the silences of the soul, picked out in 
Diamonds on stygian velvet, matters less than it should. 
Prodigies of timing may be arranged to convince them 
We live in one dimension, they in ours. While I 
Abroad through all the coasts of dark destruction seek 
Deliverance for us all, think in that language: its 
Grammar, though tortured, offers pavillions 
At each new parting of the ways. Pastel 
Ambulances scoop up the quick and hie them to hospitals. 
"It's all bits and pieces, spangles, patches, really; nothing 
Stands alone. What happened to creative evolution?" 
Sighed Aglavaine. Then to her Seacute;lysette: "If his 
Achievement is only to end up less boring than the others, 
What's keeping us here? Why not leave at once? 
I have to stay here while they sit in there, 
Laugh, drink, have fine time. In my day 
One lay under the tough green leaves, 
Pretending not to notice how they bled into 
The sky's aqua, the wafted-away no-color of regions supposed 
Not to concern us. And so we too 
Came where the others came: nights of physical endurance, 
Or if, by day, our behavior was anarchically 
Correct, at least by New Brutalism standards, all then 
Grew taciturn by previous agreement. We were spirited 
Away en bateau, under cover of fudge dark. 
It's not the incomplete importunes, but the spookiness 
Of the finished product. True, to ask less were folly, yet 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>


If he is the result of himself, how much the better 
For him we ought to be! And how little, finally, 
We take this into account! Is the puckered garance satin 
Of a case that once held a brace of dueling pistols our 
Only acknowledging of that color? I like not this, 
Methinks, yet this disappointing sequel to ourselves 
Has been applauded in London and St. Petersburg. Somewhere 
Ravens pray for us." The storm finished brewing. And thus 
She questioned all who came in at the great gate, but none 
She found who ever heard of Amadis, 
Nor of stern Aureng-Zebe, his first love. Some 
They were to whom this mattered not a jot: since all 
By definition is completeness (so 
In utter darkness they reasoned), why not 
Accept it as it pleases to reveal itself? As when 
Low skyscrapers from lower-hanging clouds reveal 
A turret there, an art-deco escarpment here, and last perhaps 
The pattern that may carry the sense, but 
Stays hidden in the mysteries of pagination. 
Not what we see but how we see it matters; all's 
Alike, the same, and we greet him who announces 
The change as we would greet the change itself. 
All life is but a figment; conversely, the tiny 
Tome that slips from your hand is not perhaps the 
Missing link in this invisible picnic whose leverage 
Shrouds our sense of it. Therefore bivouac we 
On this great, blond highway, unimpeded by 
Veiled scruples, worn conundrums. Morning is 
Impermanent. Grab sex things, swing up 
Over the horizon like a boy 
On a fishing expedition. No one really knows 
Or cares whether this is the whole of which parts 
Were vouchsafed--once--but to be ambling on's 
The tradition more than the safekeeping of it. This mulch for 
Play keeps them interested and busy while the big, 
Vaguer stuff can decide what it wants--what maps, what 
Model cities, how much waste space. Life, our 
Life anyway, is between. We don't mind 
Or notice any more that the sky is green, a parrot 
One, but have our earnest where it chances on us, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Disingenuous, intrigued, inviting more, 
Always invoking the echo, a summer's day. 






Day Bump 

Whether the harborline or the east shoreline 
consummated it was nobody's biz until you got there, 
eyelids ashimmer, content with one more dispensation 
from blue above. And just like we were saying, 
the people began to show some interest 
in the mud-choked harbor. It could be summer again 
for all anyone in our class knew. 
Yeah, that's right. Bumped from our dog-perch, 
we'd had to roil with the last of them. 

It's taken a while since I've been here, 
but I'm resolved. What, didn't I print, 
little piles of notes, slopes almost Sicilian? 
Here is my friend: 
Socks for comfort (now boys) will see later. Did they come? 
The inner grocery had to take three sets of clips away. 
Speaking to him of intricate family affairs. 
I'm not what you think. Stay preconscious. 
It's just the "flooding of the council." No need to feel afraid. 




Dramedy 

Things I left on your paper: 
one of the craziest episodes that ever overtook me. 
Do you like espionage? A watered charm? 
My pod cast aside, I'll walk in the human street, 
protect the old jib from new miniseries. 

I could swear it moved 
in incomplete back yards 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
to endorse the conversation, request to be strapped in. 
Then it will be time to take the step 
giving fragile responses, 
and finally he wrote the day. 

It happened in the water 
so that was nice. 

It comes ready conflated: 
vanilla for get lost, flavor of the time 
of his sponsor's destiny. Be on that sofa. 

I was crossing the state line as they were reburying the stuff. 
You break the time lock, the bride's canister????...???? 
but we did say that we'd be back. 




El Dorado 

We have a friend in common, the retired sophomore. 
His concern: that I shall get it like that, 
in the right and righter of a green bush 
chomping on future considerations. In the ghostly 
dreams of others it appears I am all right, 
and even going on tomorrow there is much 
to be said on all these matters, "issues," like 
"No rest for the weary." (And yet—why not?) 
Feeling under orders is a way of showing up, 
but stepping on Earth—she's not going to. 
Ten shades of pleasing himself brings us to tomorrow 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
evening and will be back for more. I disagree 
with you completely but couldn't be prouder 
and fonder of you. So drink up. Feel good for two. 

I do it in a lot of places. Subfusc El Dorado 
is only one that I know something about. 
Others are recently lost cities 
where we used to live—they keep the names 
we knew, sometimes. I do it in a lot of places. 
Brash brats offer laughing advice, 
as though anything I cared about could be difficult 
or complicated now. That's the rub. Gusts of up 
to forty-five miles an hour will be dropping in later 
on tonight. No reason not to. So point at the luck 
we know about. Living is a meatloaf sandwich. 
I had a good time up there. 




Farm Implements And Rutabagas In A Landscape 

The first of the undecoded messages read: "Popeye sits 
in thunder, 
Unthought of. From that shoebox of an apartment, 
From livid curtain's hue, a tangram emerges: a country." 
Meanwhile the Sea Hag was relaxing on a green couch: "How 
pleasant 
To spend one's vacation en la casa de Popeye," she 
scratched 
Her cleft chin's solitary hair. She remembered spinach 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
And was going to ask Wimpy if he had bought any spinach. 
"M'love," he intercepted, "the plains are decked out 
in thunder 
Today, and it shall be as you wish." He scratched 
The part of his head under his hat. The apartment 
Seemed to grow smaller. "But what if no pleasant 
Inspiration plunge us now to the stars? For this is my 
country." 

Suddenly they remembered how it was cheaper in the country. 
Wimpy was thoughtfully cutting open a number 2 can of spinach 
When the door opened and Swee'pea crept in. "How pleasant!" 
But Swee'pea looked morose. A note was pinned to his bib. 
"Thunder 
And tears are unavailing," it read. "Henceforth shall 
Popeye's apartment 
Be but remembered space, toxic or salubrious, whole or 
scratched." 

Olive came hurtling through the window; its geraniums scratched 
Her long thigh. "I have news!" she gasped. "Popeye, forced as 
you know to flee the country 
One musty gusty evening, by the schemes of his wizened, 
duplicate father, jealous of the apartment 
And all that it contains, myself and spinach 
In particular, heaves bolts of loving thunder 
At his own astonished becoming, rupturing the pleasant 

Arpeggio of our years. No more shall pleasant 



Rays of the sun refresh your sense of growing old, nor the 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
scratched 
Tree-trunks and mossy foliage, only immaculate darkness and 
thunder." 
She grabbed Swee'pea. "I'm taking the brat to the country." 
"But you can't do that--he hasn't even finished his spinach," 
Urged the Sea Hag, looking fearfully around at the apartment. 

But Olive was already out of earshot. Now the apartment 
Succumbed to a strange new hush. "Actually it's quite pleasant 
Here," thought the Sea Hag. "If this is all we need fear from 
spinach 
Then I don't mind so much. Perhaps we could invite Alice the Goon 
over"--she scratched 
One dug pensively--"but Wimpy is such a country 
Bumpkin, always burping like that." Minute at first, the thunder 

Soon filled the apartment. It was domestic thunder, 
The color of spinach. Popeye chuckled and scratched 
His balls: it sure was pleasant to spend a day in the country. 




For John Clare 

Kind of empty in the way it sees everything, the earth gets to its feet andsalutes 
the sky. More of a success at it this time than most others it is. The feeling that 
the sky might be in the back of someone's mind. Then there is no telling how 
many there are. They grace everything--bush and tree--to take the roisterer's 
mind off his caroling--so it's like a smooth switch back. To what was aired in their 
previous conniption fit. There is so much to be seen everywhere that it's like not 
getting used to it, only there is so much it never feels new, never any different. 
You are standing looking at that building and you cannot take it all in, certain 
details are already hazy and the mind boggles. What will it all be like in five 
years' time when you try to remember? Will there have been boards in between 
the grass part and the edge of the street? As long as that couple is stopping to 
look in that window over there we cannot go. We feel like they have to tell us we 
can, but they never look our way and they are already gone, gone far into the 
future--the night of time. If we could look at a photograph of it and say there 
they are, they never really stopped but there they are. There is so much to be 
said, and on the surface of it very little gets said. 
There ought to be room for more things, for a spreading out, like. Being 
immersed in the details of rock and field and slope --letting them come to you for 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
once, and then meeting them halfway would be so much easier--if they took an 
ingenuous pride in being in one's blood. Alas, we perceive them if at all as those 
things that were meant to be put aside-- costumes of the supporting actors or 
voice trilling at the end of a narrow enclosed street. You can do nothing with 
them. Not even offer to pay. 
It is possible that finally, like coming to the end of a long, barely perceptible rise, 
there is mutual cohesion and interaction. The whole scene is fixed in your mind, 
the music all present, as though you could see each note as well as hear it. I say 
this because there is an uneasiness in things just now. Waiting for something to 
be over before you are forced to notice it. The pollarded trees scarcely bucking 
the wind--and yet it's keen, it makes you fall over. Clabbered sky. Seasons that 
pass with a rush. After all it's their time too--nothing says they aren't to make 
something of it. As for Jenny Wren, she cares, hopping about on her little twig 
like she was tryin' to tell us somethin', but that's just it, she couldn't even if she 
wanted to--dumb bird. But the others--and they in some way must know too--it 
would never occur to them to want to, even if they could take the first step of the 
terrible journey toward feeling somebody should act, that ends in utter confusion 
and hopelessness, east of the sun and west of the moon. So their comment is: 
"No comment." Meanwhile the whole history of probabilities is coming to life, 
starting in the upper left-hand corner, like a sail. 






Glazunoviana 

The man with the red hat 
And the polar bear, is he here too? 
The window giving on shade, 
Is that here too? 
And all the little helps, 
My initials in the sky, 
The hay of an arctic summer night? 

The bear 
Drops dead in sight of the window. 
Lovely tribes have just moved to the north. 
In the flickering evening the martins grow denser. 
Rivers of wings surround us and vast tribulation. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>



Hotel Lautréamont 

1. 
Research has shown that ballads were produced by all of society 
working as a team. They didn't just happen. There was no guesswork. 
The people, then, knew what they wanted and how to get it. 
We see the results in works as diverse as "Windsor Forest" and 
"The Wife of Usher's Well." 

Working as a team, they didn't just happen. There was no guesswork. 
The horns of elfland swing past, and in a few seconds 
we see the results in works as diverse as "Windsor Forest" and 
"The Wife of Usher's Well," 
or, on a more modern note, in the finale of the Sibelius violin concerto. 

The horns of elfland swing past, and in a few seconds 
the world, as we know it, sinks into dementia, proving narrative passé, 
or in the finale of the Sibelius violin concerto. 
Not to worry, many hands are making work light again. 

The world, as we know it, sinks into dementia, proving narrative passé. 
In any case the ruling was long overdue. 
Not to worry, many hands are making work light again, 
so we stay indoors. The quest was only another adventure.

 2. 
In any case, the ruling was long overdue. 
The people are beside themselves with rapture 
so we stay indoors. The quest was only another adventure 
and the solution problematic, at any rate far off in the future. 

The people are beside themselves with rapture 
yet no one thinks to question the source of so much collective euphoria, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
and the solution: problematic, at any rate far off in the future. 
The saxophone wails, the martini glass is drained. 

Yet no one thinks to question the source of so much collective euphoria. 
In troubled times one looked to the shaman or priest for comfort and counsel. 
The saxophone wails, the martini glass is drained, 
and night like black swansdown settles on the city. 



In troubled times one looked to the shaman or priest for comfort and counsel. 
Now, only the willing are fated to receive death as a reward, 
and night like black swansdown settles on the city. 
If we tried to leave, would being naked help us?

 3. 
Now, only the willing are fated to receive death as a reward. 
Children twist hula-hoops, imagining a door to the outside. 
If we tried to leave, would being naked help us? 
And what of older, lighter concerns? What of the river? 

Children twist hula-hoops, imagining a door to the outside, 
when all we think of is how much we can carry with us. 
And what of older, lighter concerns? What of the river? 
All the behemoths have filed through the maze of time. 

When all we think of is how much we can carry with us 
small wonder that those at home sit, nervous, by the unlit grate. 
All the behemoths have filed through the maze of time. 
It remains for us to come to terms with our commonality. 

Small wonder that those at home sit nervous by the unlit grate. 
It was their choice, after all, that spurred us to feats of the imagination. 
It remains for us to come to terms with our commonality 
and in so doing deprive time of further hostages.

 4. 
It was their choice, after all, that spurred us to feats of the imagination. 
Now, silently as one mounts a stair we emerge into the open 
and in so doing deprive time of further hostages, 
to end the standoff that history long ago began. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Now, silently as one mounts a stair we emerge into the open 
but it is shrouded, veiled: We must have made some ghastly error. 
To end the standoff that history long ago began 
must we thrust ever onward, into perversity? 

But it is shrouded, veiled: We must have made some ghastly error. 
You mop your forehead with a rose, recommending its thorns. 



Must we thrust ever onward, into perversity? 
Only night knows for sure; the secret is safe with her. 

You mop your forehead with a rose, recommending its thorns. 
Research has shown that ballads were produced by all of society; 
only night knows for sure. The secret is safe with her: 
The people, then, knew what they wanted and how to get it. 




How to Continue 

Oh there once was a woman 
and she kept a shop 
selling trinkets to tourists 
not far from a dock 
who came to see what life could be 
far back on the island. 

And it was always a party there 
always different but very nice 
New friends to give you advice 
or fall in love with you which is nice 
and each grew so perfectly from the other 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
it was a marvel of poetry 
and irony 

And in this unsafe quarter 
much was scary and dirty 
but no one seemed to mind 
very much 
the parties went on from house to house 
There were friends and lovers galore 
all around the store 
There was moonshine in winter 
and starshine in summer 
and everybody was happy to have discovered 
what they discovered 

And then one day the ship sailed away 
There were no more dreamers just sleepers 
in heavy attitudes on the dock 
moving as if they knew how 
among the trinkets and the souvenirs 
the random shops of modern furniture 
and a gale came and said 
it is time to take all of you away 
from the tops of the trees to the little houses 
on little paths so startled 

And when it became time to go 


<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

they none of them would leave without the other 
for they said we are all one here 
and if one of us goes the other will not go 
and the wind whispered it to the stars 
the people all got up to go 
and looked back on love 




Into The Dusk-Charged Air 

Far from the Rappahannock, the silent 
Danube moves along toward the sea. 
The brown and green Nile rolls slowly 
Like the Niagara's welling descent. 
Tractors stood on the green banks of the Loire 
Near where it joined the Cher. 
The St. Lawrence prods among black stones 
And mud. But the Arno is all stones. 
Wind ruffles the Hudson's 
Surface. The Irawaddy is overflowing. 
But the yellowish, gray Tiber 
Is contained within steep banks. The Isar 
Flows too fast to swim in, the Jordan's water 
Courses over the flat land. The Allegheny and its boats 
Were dark blue. The Moskowa is 
Gray boats. The Amstel flows slowly. 
Leaves fall into the Connecticut as it passes 
Underneath. The Liffey is full of sewage, 
Like the Seine, but unlike 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
The brownish-yellow Dordogne. 
Mountains hem in the Colorado 
And the Oder is very deep, almost 
As deep as the Congo is wide. 
The plain banks of the Neva are 
Gray. The dark Saocirc;ne flows silently. 
And the Volga is long and wide 
As it flows across the brownish land. The Ebro 
Is blue, and slow. The Shannon flows 
Swiftly between its banks. The Mississippi 
Is one of the world's longest rivers, like the Amazon. 
It has the Missouri for a tributary. 
The Harlem flows amid factories 
And buildings. The Nelson is in Canada, 
Flowing. Through hard banks the Dubawnt 
Forces its way. People walk near the Trent. 
The landscape around the Mohawk stretches away; 
The Rubicon is merely a brook. 
In winter the Main 
Surges; the Rhine sings its eternal song. 



The Rhocirc;ne slogs along through whitish banks 
And the Rio Grande spins tales of the past. 
The Loir bursts its frozen shackles 
But the Moldau's wet mud ensnares it. 
The East catches the light. 
Near the Escaut the noise of factories echoes 
And the sinuous Humboldt gurgles wildly. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
The Po too flows, and the many-colored 
Thames. Into the Atlantic Ocean 
Pours the Garonne. Few ships navigate 
On the Housatonic, but quite a few can be seen 
On the Elbe. For centuries 
The Afton has flowed. 
If the Rio Negro 
Could abandon its song, and the Magdalena 
The jungle flowers, the Tagus 
Would still flow serenely, and the Ohio 
Abrade its slate banks. The tan Euphrates would 
Sidle silently across the world. The Yukon 
Was choked with ice, but the Susquehanna still pushed 
Bravely along. The Dee caught the day's last flares 
Like the Pilcomayo's carrion rose. 
The Peace offered eternal fragrance 
Perhaps, but the Mackenzie churned livid mud 
Like tan chalk-marks. Near where 
The Brahmaputra slapped swollen dikes 
And the Pechora? The Satilde;o Francisco 
Skulks amid gray, rubbery nettles. The Liard's 
Reflexes are slow, and the Arkansas erodes 
Anthracite hummocks. The Paranaacute; stinks. 
The Ottawa is light emerald green 
Among grays. Better that the Indus fade 
In steaming sands! Let the Brazos 
Freeze solid! And the Wabash turn to a leaden 
Cinder of ice! The Marantilde;oacute;n is too tepid, we must 
Find a way to freeze it hard. The Ural 
Is freezing slowly in the blasts. The black Yonne 
Congeals nicely. And the Petit-Morin 
Curls up on the solid earth. The Inn 
Does not remember better times, and the Merrimack's 
Galvanized. The Ganges is liquid snow by now; 
The Vyatka's ice-gray. The once-molten Tennessee s 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>


Curdled. The Japuraacute; is a pack of ice. Gelid 
The Columbia's gray loam banks. The Don's merely 
A giant icicle. The Niger freezes, slowly. 
The interminable Lena plods on 
But the Purus' mercurial waters are icy, grim 
With cold. The Loing is choked with fragments of ice. 
The Weser is frozen, like liquid air. 
And so is the Kama. And the beige, thickly flowing 
Tocantins. The rivers bask in the cold. 
The stern Uruguay chafes its banks, 
A mass of ice. The Hooghly is solid 
Ice. The Adour is silent, motionless. 
The lovely Tigris is nothing but scratchy ice 
Like the Yellowstone, with its osier-clustered banks. 
The Mekong is beginning to thaw out a little 
And the Donets gurgles beneath the 
Huge blocks of ice. The Manzanares gushes free. 
The Illinois darts through the sunny air again. 
But the Dnieper is still ice-bound. Somewhere 
The Salado propels irs floes, but the Roosevelt's 
Frozen. The Oka is frozen solider 
Than the Somme. The Minho slumbers 
In winter, nor does the Snake 
Remember August. Hilarious, the Canadian 
Is solid ice. The Madeira slavers 
Across the thawing fields, and the Plata laughs. 
The Dvina soaks up the snow. The Sava's 
Temperature is above freezing. The Avon 
Carols noiselessly. The Drocirc;me presses 
Grass banks; the Adige's frozen 
Surface is like gray pebbles. 

Birds circle the Ticino. In winter 
The Var was dark blue, unfrozen. The 
Thwaite, cold, is choked with sandy ice; 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
The Ardegrave;che glistens feebly through the freezing rain. 




Just Walking Around 

What name do I have for you? 
Certainly there is not name for you 
In the sense that the stars have names 
That somehow fit them. Just walking around, 

An object of curiosity to some, 
But you are too preoccupied 
By the secret smudge in the back of your soul 
To say much and wander around, 

Smiling to yourself and others. 
It gets to be kind of lonely 
But at the same time off-putting. 
Counterproductive, as you realize once again 

That the longest way is the most efficient way, 
The one that looped among islands, and 
You always seemed to be traveling in a circle. 
And now that the end is near 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

The segments of the trip swing open like an orange. 
There is light in there and mystery and food. 
Come see it. 
Come not for me but it. 
But if I am still there, grant that we may see each other. 




Last Month 

No changes of support—only 
Patches of gray, here where sunlight fell. 
The house seems heavier 
Now that they have gone away. 
In fact it emptied in record time. 
When the flat table used to result 
A match recedes, slowly, into the night. 
The academy of the future is 
Opening its doors and willing 
The fruitless sunlight streams into domes, 
The chairs piled high with books and papers. 

The sedate one is this month's skittish one 
Confirming the property that, 
A timeless value, has changed hands. 
And you could have a new automobile 
Ping pong set and garage, but the thief 
Stole everything like a miracle. 
In his book there was a picture of treason only 
And in the garden, cries and colors. 



<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

Late Echo 

Alone with our madness and favorite flower 
We see that there really is nothing left to write about. 
Or rather, it is necessary to write about the same old things 
In the same way, repeating the same things over and over 
For love to continue and be gradually different. 

Beehives and ants have to be re-examined eternally 
And the color of the day put in 
Hundreds of times and varied from summer to winter 
For it to get slowed down to the pace of an authentic 
Saraband and huddle there, alive and resting. 

Only then can the chronic inattention 
Of our lives drape itself around us, conciliatory 
And with one eye on those long tan plush shadows 
That speak so deeply into our unprepared knowledge 
Of ourselves, the talking engines of our day. 




Late-ish 

The girl in the green ski chasuble 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
hasn't yet graduated from radio school. 
Let's pay attention. 

Looking ahead, why, he waved his mouth along. 
Doesn't life get difficult in the summer? 
The divine medicine for it collapsed 
in front of the shortstop, 
who took off like a battalion. 

Crowds of older people who would read this 
happily, willingly, then walking into night's embrace, 
then kiss. "To turn you out, to turn you out!" 
Sometimes an arm is accused: 
You could have felt it, the blue shirts, 
phlegm central, four times a night. 
But what does that get me? 
Light refreshments. 

When the suburban demonstration kind of shrunk 
you put your foot out, 
leave it or kiss it 
or even two years ago, 
Charmaine here tells us. 
I think I should stay ...???? 

Cross-eyed sonofabitch ...???? 
He liked him, he could tell. A de-happening. 
The gangster no longer wanted to sleep with him, 
but what the heck. With time off 
for actual fuzz collected ... All right, boys. 
Cheap murders, peach driven ... I seen enough of those 
samples along the way. 




Leave the Hand In 

Furthermore, Mr. Tuttle used to have to run in the streets. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Now, each time friendship happens, they're fully booked. 
Sporting with amaryllis in the shade is all fine and good, 
but when your sparring partner gets there first 
you wonder if it was all worth it. "Yes, why do it?" 
I'm on hold. It will take quite a lot for this music 
to grow on me. I meant no harm. I've helped him 
from getting stuck before. Dumb thing. All my appetites are friendly. 
Children too are free to go and come as they please. 
I ask you only to choose between us, then shut down this election. 
But don't reveal too much of your hand at any given time. 
Then up and pipes the major, leave the hand in, 
or change the vows. The bold, enduring menace of courtship is upon us 
like the plague, and none of us can say what trouble 
will be precipitated once it has had its way with us. 
Our home is marshland. After dinner was wraparound. 
You got a tender little look at it. 

Outside, it never did turn golden. 




Like a Sentence 

How little we know, 
and when we know it! 

It was prettily said that "No man 
hath an abundance of cows on the plain, nor shards 
in his cupboard." Wait! I think I know who said that! It was . . . 

Never mind, dears, the afternoon 
will fold you up, along with preoccupations 
that now seem so important, until only a child 
running around on a unicycle occupies center stage. 
Then what will you make of walls? And I fear you 
will have to come up with something, 

be it a terraced gambit above the sea 
or gossip overheard in the marketplace. 
For you see, it becomes you to be chastened: 
for the old to envy the young, 
and for youth to fear not getting older, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
where the paths through the elms, the carnivals, begin. 

And it was said of Gyges that his ring 
attracted those who saw him not, 
just as those who wandered through him were aware 
only of a certain stillness, such as precedes an earache, 
while lumberjacks in headbands came down to see what all the fuss was about, 
whether it was something they could be part of 
sans affront to self-esteem. 
And those temple hyenas who had seen enough, 
nostrils aflare, fur backing up in the breeze, 
were no place you could count on, 
having taken a proverbial powder 
as rifle butts received another notch. 
I, meanwhile . . . I was going to say I had squandered spring 
when summer came along and took it from me 
like a terrier a lady has asked one to hold for a moment 
while she adjusts her stocking in the mirror of a weighing machine. 
But here it is winter, and wrong 
to speak of other seasons as though they exist. 



Time has only an agenda 
in the wallet at his back, while we 
who think we know where we are going unfazed 
end up in brilliant woods, nourished more than we can know 
by the unexpectedness of ice and stars 
and crackling tears. We'll just have to make a go of it, 
a run for it. And should the smell of baking cookies appease 
one or the other of the olfactory senses, climb down 
into this wagonload of prisoners. 

The meter will be screamingly clear then, 
the rhythms unbounced, for though we came 
to life as to a school, we must leave it without graduating 
even as an ominous wind puffs out the sails 
of proud feluccas who don't know where they're headed, 
only that a motion is etched there, shaking to be free. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>




Mean Particles 

Sometimes something like a second 
washes the base of this street. 
The father and his two assistants 
are given permission to go. 
One of them, a woman, asks, "Why 
did we come here in the first place, 
to this citadel of dampness?" 

Some days are worse than others, 
even if we can't believe in them. 
But that was never a concern of mine, 
reasoned the patient. 

Sing, scroll, or never be blasted by us 
into marmoreal meaning, or the fist for it. 
Kudos to the prince who journeyed here 
to negotiate our release, if you can believe it. 

You're right. The ballads are retreating 
back into the atmosphere. 
They won't be coming round again. 
Make your peace. 




Meaningful Love 

What the bad news was 
became apparent too late 
for us to do anything good about it. 

I was offered no urgent dreaming, 
didn't need a name or anything. 
Everything was taken care of. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

In the medium-size city of my awareness 
voles are building colossi. 
The blue room is over there. 

He put out no feelers. 
The day was all as one to him. 
Some days he never leaves his room 
and those are the best days, 
by far. 

There were morose gardens farther down the slope, 
anthills that looked like they belonged there. 
The sausages were undercooked, 
the wine too cold, the bread molten. 
Who said to bring sweaters? 
The climate's not that dependable. 

The Atlantic crawled slowly to the left 
pinning a message on the unbound golden hair of sleeping maidens, 
a ruse for next time, 

where fire and water are rampant in the streets, 
the gate closed—no visitors today 
or any evident heartbeat. 

I got rid of the book of fairy tales, 
pawned my old car, bought a ticket to the funhouse, 
found myself back here at six o'clock, 
pondering "possible side effects." 

There was no harm in loving then, 



no certain good either. But love was loving servants 
or bosses. No straight road issuing from it. 
Leaves around the door are penciled losses. 
Twenty years to fix it. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Asters bloom one way or another. 




My Erotic Double 

He says he doesn't feel like working today. 
It's just as well. Here in the shade 
Behind the house, protected from street noises, 
One can go over all kinds of old feeling, 
Throw some away, keep others.

 The wordplay 
Between us gets very intense when there are 
Fewer feelings around to confuse things. 
Another go-round? No, but the last things 
You always find to say are charming, and rescue me 
Before the night does. We are afloat 
On our dreams as on a barge made of ice, 
Shot through with questions and fissures of starlight 
That keep us awake, thinking about the dreams 
As they are happening. Some occurrence. You said it. 

I said it but I can hide it. But I choose not to. 
Thank you. You are a very pleasant person. 
Thank you. You are too. 




My Philosophy Of Life 

Just when I thought there wasn't room enough 
for another thought in my head, I had this great idea-call 
it a philosophy of life, if you ly, 
it involved living the way philosophers live, 
according to a set of principles. OK, but which ones? 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

That was the hardest part, I admit, but I had a 
kind of dark foreknowledge of what it would be like. 
Everything, from eating watermelon or going to the bathroom 
or just standing on a subway platform, lost in thought 
for a few minutes, or worrying about rain forests, 
would be affected, or more precisely, inflected 
by my new attitude.I wouldn't be preachy, 
or worry about children and old people, except 
in the general way prescribed by our clockwork universe. 
Instead I'd sort of let things be what they are 
while injecting them with the serum of the new moral climate 
I thought I'd stumbled into, as a stranger 
accidentally presses against a panel and a bookcase slides back, 
revealing a winding staircase with greenish light 
somewhere down below, and he automatically steps inside 
and the bookcase slides shut, as is customary on such occasions. 
At once a fragrance overwhelms him--not saffron, not lavender, 
but something in thinks of cushions, like the one 
his uncle's Boston bull terrier used to lie on watching him 
quizzically, pointed ear-tips folded over. And then the great rush 
is a single idea emerges from it.It's enough 
to disgust you with then you remember something 
William James 
wrote in some book of his you never read--it was fine, it had the 
fineness, 
the powder of life dusted over it, by chance, of course, yet 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
still looking 
for evidence of fingerprints. Someone had handled it 
even before he formulated it, though the thought was his and 
his alone. 

It's fine, in summer, to visit the seashore. 
There are lots of little trips to be made. 



A grove of fledgling aspens welcomes the y 
are the public toilets where weary pilgrims have carved 
their names and addresses, and perhaps messages as well, 
messages to the world, as they sat 
and thought about what they'd do after using the toilet 
and washing their hands at the sink, prior to stepping out 
into the open they been coaxed in by principles, 
and were their words philosophy, of however crude a sort? 
I confess I can move no farther along this train of thought-something's 
blocking hing I'm 
not big enough to see maybe I'm frankly scared. 
What was the matter with how I acted before? 
But maybe I can come up with a compromise--I'll let 
things be what they are, sort of.In the autumn I'll put up jellies 
and preserves, against the winter cold and futility, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
and that will be a human thing, and intelligent as well. 
I won't be embarrassed by my friends' dumb remarks, 
or even my own, though admittedly that's the hardest part, 
as when you are in a crowded theater and something you say 
riles the spectator in front of you, who doesn't even like the idea 
of two people near him talking together. Well he's 
got to be flushed out so the hunters can have a crack at him-this 
thing works both ways, you know. You can't always 
be worrying about others and keeping track of yourself 
at the same would be abusive, and about as much fun 
as attending the wedding of two people you don't know. 
Still, there's a lot of fun to be had in the gaps between ideas. 
That's what they're made for!Now I want you to go out there 
and enjoy yourself, and yes, enjoy your philosophy of life, too. 
They don't come along every day. Look out!There's a big one... 




Pantoum 

Eyes shining without mystery, 
Footprints eager for the past 
Through the vague snow of many clay pipes, 
And what is in store? 

Footprints eager for the past 
The usual obtuse blanket. 
And what is in store 
For those dearest to the king? 

The usual obtuse blanket. 
Of legless regrets and amplifications 
For those dearest to the king. 
Yes, sirs, connoisseurs of oblivion, 

The usual obtuse blanket. 
Of legless regrets and amplifications 
For those dearest to the king. 
Yes, sirs, connoisseurs of oblivion, 

Of legless regrets and amplifications, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
That is why a watchdog is shy. 
Yes, sirs, connoisseurs of oblivion, 
These days are short, brittle; there is only one night. 

That is why a watchdog is shy, 
Why the court, trapped in a silver storm, is dying. 
These days are short, brittle; there is only one night 
And that soon gotten over. 

Why the court, trapped in a silver storm, is dying 
Some blunt pretense to safety we have 
And that soon gotten over 
For they must have motion. 

Some blunt pretense to safety we have 
Eyes shining without mystery, 
For they must have motion 
Through the vague snow of many clay pipes. 






People Behaving Badly a Concern 

Aggressive panhandling, public urination, verbal threats, 
public nudity and violation of the open container law 
followed us down the days, for why 
are we here much longer, 
or even this long? I ask you 
to be civil and not interrupt night's business. 

It was fun getting used to you, 
who couldn't have been more nicer. 
This was as modern as it had ever been. 
They were influenced by him: some dirty magazine 
on the air tonight. (Amid the chaos, reports of survivors.) 

Didn't the flowers' restoration cat fugue keep spilling, 
and like that? It wouldn't be the first time, either. 
The pro-taffeta get up and laugh, 
investigate or communicate. The night you were 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
going to stay up late, others will kiss, 
and he talks about you, and I don't know what. 
Come in, anyway, 
and don't lack for tales of the Assertion. 

We're talking civilian unrest. 
Yes, well, maybe you should take one. 

(Do not bite or chew.) 




Poem At The New Year 

Once, out on the water in the clear, early nineteenth-century twilight, 
you asked time to suspend its flight. If wishes could beget more than sobs, 
that would be my wish for you, my darling, my angel. But other 
principles prevail in this glum haven, don't they? If that's what it is. 

Then the wind fell of its own accord. 
We went out and saw that it had actually happened. 
The season stood motionless, alert. How still the dropp was 
on the burr I know not. I come all 
packaged and serene, yet I keep losing things. 

I wonder about Australia. Is it anything about Canada? 
Do pigeons flutter? Is there a strangeness there, to complete 
the one in me? Or must I relearn my filing system? 
Can we trust others to indict us 
who see us only in the evening rush hour, 
and never stop to think? O, I was so bright about you, 
my songbird, once. Now, cattails immolated 
in the frozen swamp are about all I have time for. 
The days are so polarized. Yet time itself is off center. 
At least that's how it feels to me. 

I know it as well as the streets in the map of my imagined 
industrial city. But it has its own way of slipping past. 
There was never any fullness that was going to be; 
you waited in line for things, and the stained light was 
impenitent. 'Spiky' was one adjective that came to mind, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

yet for all its raised or lower levels I approach this canal. 
Its time was right in winter. There was pipe smoke 
in cafés, and outside the great ashen bird 
streamed from lettered display windows, and waited 
a little way off. Another chance. It never became a gesture. 




Pyrography 

Out here on Cottage Grove it matters. The galloping 
Wind balks at its shadow. The carriages 
Are drawn forward under a sky of fumed oak. 
This is America calling: 
The mirroring of state to state, 
Of voice to voice on the wires, 
The force of colloquial greetings like golden 
Pollen sinking on the afternoon breeze. 
In service stairs the sweet corruption thrives; 
The page of dusk turns like a creaking revolving stage in Warren, Ohio. 

If this is the way it is let's leave, 
They agree, and soon the slow boxcar journey begins, 
Gradually accelerating until the gyrating fans of suburbs 
Enfolding the darkness of cities are remembered 
Only as a recurring tic. And midway 
We meet the disappointed, returning ones, without its 
Being able to stop us in the headlong night 
Toward the nothing of the coast. At Bolinas 
The houses doze and seem to wonder why through the 
Pacific haze, and the dreams alternately glow and grow dull. 
Why be hanging on here? Like kites, circling, 
Slipping on a ramp of air, but always circling? 

But the variable cloudiness is pouring it on, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Flooding back to you like the meaning of a joke. 
The land wasn't immediately appealing; we built it 
Partly over with fake ruins, in the image of ourselves: 
An arch that terminates in mid-keystone, a crumbling stone pier 
For laundresses, an open-air theater, never completed 
And only partially designed. How are we to inhabit 
This space from which the fourth wall is invariably missing, 
As in a stage-set or dollhouse, except by staving as we are, 
In lost profile, facing the stars, with dozens of as yet 
Unrealized projects, and a strict sense 
Of time running out, of evening presenting 
The tactfully folded-over bill? And we fit 
Rather too easily into it, become transparent, 
Almost ghosts. One day 



The birds and animals in the pasture have absorbed 
The color, the density of the surroundings, 
The leaves are alive, and too heavy with life. 

A long period of adjustment followed. 
In the cities at the turn of the century they knew about it 
But were careful not to let on as the iceman and the milkman 
Disappeared down the block and the postman shouted 
His daily rounds. The children under the trees knew it 
But all the fathers returning home 
On streetcars after a satisfying day at the office undid it: 
The climate was still floral and all the wallpaper 
In a million homes all over the land conspired to hide it. 
One day we thought of painted furniture, of how 
It just slightly changes everything in the room 
And in the yard outside, and how, if we were going 
To be able to write the history of our time, starting with today, 
It would be necessary to model all these unimportant details 
So as to be able to include them; otherwise the narrative 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Would have that flat, sandpapered look the sky gets 
Out in the middle west toward the end of summer, 
The look of wanting to back out before the argument 
Has been resolved, and at the same time to save appearances 
So that tomorrow will be pure. Therefore, since we have to do our business 
In spite of things, why not make it in spite of everything? 
That way, maybe the feeble lakes and swamps 
Of the back country will get plugged into the circuit 
And not just the major events but the whole incredible 
Mass of everything happening simultaneously and pairing off, 
Channeling itself into history, will unroll 
As carefully and as casually as a conversation in the next room, 
And the purity of today will invest us like a breeze, 
Only be hard, spare, ironical: something one can 
Tip one's hat to and still get some use out of. 

The parade is turning into our street. 
My stars, the burnished uniforms and prismatic 
Features of this instant belong here. The land 
Is pulling away from the magic, glittering coastal towns 
To an aforementioned rendezvous with August and December. 
The hunch is it will always be this way, 
The look, the way things first scared you 



In the night light, and later turned out to be, 
Yet still capable, all the same, of a narrow fidelity 
To what you and they wanted to become: 
No sighs like Russian music, only a vast unravelling 
Out toward the junctions and to the darkness beyond 
To these bare fields, built at today's expense. 




Rivers and Mountains 

On the secret map the assassins 
Cloistered, the Moon River was marked 
Near the eighteen peaks and the city 
Of humiliation and defeat—wan ending 
Of the trail among dry, papery leaves 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Gray-brown quills like thoughts 
In the melodious but vast mass of today's 
Writing through fields and swamps 
Marked, on the map, with little bunches of weeds. 
Certainly squirrels lived in the woods 
But devastation and dull sleep still 
Hung over the land, quelled 
The rioters turned out of sleep in the peace of prisons 
Singing on marble factory walls 
Deaf consolation of minor tunes that pack 
The air with heavy invisible rods 
Pent in some sand valley from 
Which only quiet walking ever instructs. 
The bird flew over and 
Sat—there was nothing else to do. 
Do not mistake its silence for pride or strength 
Or the waterfall for a harbor 
Full of light boats that is there 
Performing for thousands of people 
In clothes some with places to go 
Or games. Sometimes over the pillar 
Of square stones its impact 
Makes a light print. 
So going around cities 
To get to other places you found 
It all on paper but the land 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Was made of paper processed 
To look like ferns, mud or other 
Whose sea unrolled its magic 
Distances and then rolled them up 
Its secret was only a pocket 
After all but some corners are darker 
Than these moonless nights spent as on a raft 
In the seclusion of a melody heard 



As though through trees 
And you can never ignite their touch 
Long but there were homes 
Flung far out near the asperities 
Of a sharp, rocky pinnacle 
And other collective places 
Shadows of vineyards whose wine 
Tasted of the forest floor 
Fisheries and oyster beds 
Tides under the pole 
Seminaries of instruction, public 
Places for electric light 
And the major tax assessment area 
Wrinkled on the plan 
Of election to public office 
Sixty-two years old bath and breakfast 
The formal traffic, shadows 
To make it not worth joining 
After the ox had pulled away the cart. 

Your plan was to separate the enemy into two groups 
With the razor-edged mountains between. 
It worked well on paper 
But their camp had grown 
To be the mountains and the map 
Carefully peeled away and not torn 
Was the light, a tender but tough bark 
On everything. Fortunately the war was solved 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
In another way by isolating the two sections 
Of the enemy's navy so that the mainland 
Warded away the big floating ships. 
Light bounced off the ends 
Of the small gray waves to tell 
Them in the observatory 
About the great drama that was being won 
To turn off the machinery 
And quietly move among the rustic landscape 
Scooping snow off the mountains rinsing 
The coarser ones that love had 
Slowly risen in the night to overflow 
Wetting pillow and petal 
Determined to place the letter 



On the unassassinated president's desk 
So that a stamp could reproduce all this 
In detail, down to the last autumn leaf 
And the affliction of June ride 
Slowly out into the sun-blackened landscape. 




Self-Portrait In A Convex Mirror 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
As Parmigianino did it, the right hand 
Bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer 
And swerving easily away, as though to protect 
What it advertises. A few leaded panes, old beams, 
Fur, pleated muslin, a coral ring run together 
In a movement supporting the face, which swims 
Toward and away like the hand 
Except that it is in repose. It is what is 
Sequestered. Vasari says, "Francesco one day set himself 
To take his own portrait, looking at himself from that purpose 
In a convex mirror, such as is used by barbers . . . 
He accordingly caused a ball of wood to be made 
By a turner, and having divided it in half and 
Brought it to the size of the mirror, he set himself 
With great art to copy all that he saw in the glass," 
Chiefly his reflection, of which the portrait 
Is the reflection, of which the portrait 
Is the reflection once removed. 
The glass chose to reflect only what he saw 
Which was enough for his purpose: his image 
Glazed, embalmed, projected at a 180-degree angle. 
The time of day or the density of the light 
Adhering to the face keeps it 
Lively and intact in a recurring wave 
Of arrival. The soul establishes itself. 
But how far can it swim out through the eyes 
And still return safely to its nest? The surface 
Of the mirror being convex, the distance increases 
Significantly; that is, enough to make the point 
That the soul is a captive, treated humanely, kept 
In suspension, unable to advance much farther 
Than your look as it intercepts the picture. 
Pope Clement and his court were "stupefied" 
By it, according to Vasari, and promised a commission 
That never materialized. The soul has to stay where it is, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Even though restless, hearing raindrops at the pane, 
The sighing of autumn leaves thrashed by the wind, 
Longing to be free, outside, but it must stay 
Posing in this place. It must move 



As little as possible. This is what the portrait says. 
But there is in that gaze a combination 
Of tenderness, amusement and regret, so powerful 
In its restraint that one cannot look for long. 
The secret is too plain. The pity of it smarts, 
Makes hot tears spurt: that the soul is not a soul, 
Has no secret, is small, and it fits 
Its hollow perfectly: its room, our moment of attention. 
That is the tune but there are no words. 
The words are only speculation 
(From the Latin speculum, mirror): 
They seek and cannot find the meaning of the music. 
We see only postures of the dream, 
Riders of the motion that swings the face 
Into view under evening skies, with no 
False disarray as proof of authenticity. 
But it is life englobed. 
One would like to stick one's hand 
Out of the globe, but its dimension, 
What carries it, will not allow it. 
No doubt it is this, not the reflex 
To hide something, which makes the hand loom large 
As it retreats slightly. There is no way 
To build it flat like a section of wall: 
It must join the segment of a circle, 
Roving back to the body of which it seems 
So unlikely a part, to fence in and shore up the face 
On which the effort of this condition reads 
Like a pinpoint of a smile, a spark 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Or star one is not sure of having seen 
As darkness resumes. A perverse light whose 
Imperative of subtlety dooms in advance its 
Conceit to light up: unimportant but meant. 
Francesco, your hand is big enough 
To wreck the sphere, and too big, 
One would think, to weave delicate meshes 
That only argue its further detention. 
(Big, but not coarse, merely on another scale, 
Like a dozing whale on the sea bottom 
In relation to the tiny, self-important ship 
On the surface.) But your eyes proclaim 
That everything is surface. The surface is what's there 



And nothing can exist except what's there. 
There are no recesses in the room, only alcoves, 
And the window doesn't matter much, or that 
Sliver of window or mirror on the right, even 
As a gauge of the weather, which in French is 
Le temps, the word for time, and which 
Follows a course wherein changes are merely 
Features of the whole. The whole is stable within 
Instability, a globe like ours, resting 
On a pedestal of vacuum, a ping-pong ball 
Secure on its jet of water. 
And just as there are no words for the surface, that is, 
No words to say what it really is, that it is not 
Superficial but a visible core, then there is 
No way out of the problem of pathos vs. experience. 
You will stay on, restive, serene in 
Your gesture which is neither embrace nor warning 
But which holds something of both in pure 
Affirmation that doesn't affirm anything. 

The balloon pops, the attention 
Turns dully away. Clouds 
In the puddle stir up into sawtoothed fragments. 
I think of the friends 
Who came to see me, of what yesterday 
Was like. A peculiar slant 
Of memory that intrudes on the dreaming model 
In the silence of the studio as he considers 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Lifting the pencil to the self-portrait. 
How many people came and stayed a certain time, 
Uttered light or dark speech that became part of you 
Like light behind windblown fog and sand, 
Filtered and influenced by it, until no part 
Remains that is surely you. Those voices in the dusk 
Have told you all and still the tale goes on 
In the form of memories deposited in irregular 
Clumps of crystals. Whose curved hand controls, 
Francesco, the turning seasons and the thoughts 
That peel off and fly away at breathless speeds 
Like the last stubborn leaves ripped 
From wet branches? I see in this only the chaos 
Of your round mirror which organizes everything 



Around the polestar of your eyes which are empty, 
Know nothing, dream but reveal nothing. 
I feel the carousel starting slowly 
And going faster and faster: desk, papers, books, 
Photographs of friends, the window and the trees 
Merging in one neutral band that surrounds 
Me on all sides, everywhere I look. 
And I cannot explain the action of leveling, 
Why it should all boil down to one 
Uniform substance, a magma of interiors. 
My guide in these matters is your self, 
Firm, oblique, accepting everything with the same 
Wraith of a smile, and as time speeds up so that it is soon 
Much later, I can know only the straight way out, 
The distance between us. Long ago 
The strewn evidence meant something, 
The small accidents and pleasures 
Of the day as it moved gracelessly on, 
A housewife doing chores. Impossible now 
To restore those properties in the silver blur that is 
The record of what you accomplished by sitting down 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
"With great art to copy all that you saw in the glass" 
So as to perfect and rule out the extraneous 
Forever. In the circle of your intentions certain spars 
Remain that perpetuate the enchantment of self with self: 
Eyebeams, muslin, coral. It doesn't matter 
Because these are things as they are today 
Before one's shadow ever grew 
Out of the field into thoughts of tomorrow. 

Tomorrow is easy, but today is uncharted, 
Desolate, reluctant as any landscape 
To yield what are laws of perspective 
After all only to the painter's deep 
Mistrust, a weak instrument though 
Necessary. Of course some things 
Are possible, it knows, but it doesn't know 
Which ones. Some day we will try 
To do as many things as are possible 
And perhaps we shall succeed at a handful 
Of them, but this will not have anything 
To do with what is promised today, our 



Landscape sweeping out from us to disappear 
On the horizon. Today enough of a cover burnishes 
To keep the supposition of promises together 
In one piece of surface, letting one ramble 
Back home from them so that these 
Even stronger possibilities can remain 
Whole without being tested. Actually 
The skin of the bubble-chamber's as tough as 
Reptile eggs; everything gets "programmed" there 
In due course: more keeps getting included 
Without adding to the sum, and just as one 
Gets accustomed to a noise that 
Kept one awake but now no longer does, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
So the room contains this flow like an hourglass 
Without varying in climate or quality 
(Except perhaps to brighten bleakly and almost 
Invisibly, in a focus sharpening toward death--more 
Of this later). What should be the vacuum of a dream 
Becomes continually replete as the source of dreams 
Is being tapped so that this one dream 
May wax, flourish like a cabbage rose, 
Defying sumptuary laws, leaving us 
To awake and try to begin living in what 
Has now become a slum. Sydney Freedberg in his 
Parmigianino says of it: "Realism in this portrait 
No longer produces and objective truth, but a bizarria . . . . 
However its distortion does not create 
A feeling of disharmony . . . . The forms retain 
A strong measure of ideal beauty," because 
Fed by our dreams, so inconsequential until one day 
We notice the hole they left. Now their importance 
If not their meaning is plain. They were to nourish 
A dream which includes them all, as they are 
Finally reversed in the accumulating mirror. 
They seemed strange because we couldn't actually see them. 
And we realize this only at a point where they lapse 
Like a wave breaking on a rock, giving up 
Its shape in a gesture which expresses that shape. 
The forms retain a strong measure of ideal beauty 
As they forage in secret on our idea of distortion. 
Why be unhappy with this arrangement, since 
Dreams prolong us as they are absorbed? 



Something like living occurs, a movement 
Out of the dream into its codification. 

As I start to forget it 
It presents its stereotype again 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
But it is an unfamiliar stereotype, the face 
Riding at anchor, issued from hazards, soon 
To accost others, "rather angel than man" (Vasari). 
Perhaps an angel looks like everything 
We have forgotten, I mean forgotten 
Things that don't seem familiar when 
We meet them again, lost beyond telling, 
Which were ours once. This would be the point 
Of invading the privacy of this man who 
"Dabbled in alchemy, but whose wish 
Here was not to examine the subtleties of art 
In a detached, scientific spirit: he wished through them 
To impart the sense of novelty and amazement to the spectator" 
(Freedberg). Later portraits such as the Uffizi 
"Gentleman," the Borghese "Young Prelate" and 
The Naples "Antea" issue from Mannerist 
Tensions, but here, as Freedberg points out, 
The surprise, the tension are in the concept 
Rather than its realization. 
The consonance of the High Renaissance 
Is present, though distorted by the mirror. 
What is novel is the extreme care in rendering 
The velleities of the rounded reflecting surface 
(It is the first mirror portrait), 
So that you could be fooled for a moment 
Before you realize the reflection 
Isn't yours. You feel then like one of those 
Hoffmann characters who have been deprived 
Of a reflection, except that the whole of me 
Is seen to be supplanted by the strict 
Otherness of the painter in his 
Other room. We have surprised him 
At work, but no, he has surprised us 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
As he works. The picture is almost finished, 
The surprise almost over, as when one looks out, 
Startled by a snowfall which even now is 
Ending in specks and sparkles of snow. 



It happened while you were inside, asleep, 
And there is no reason why you should have 
Been awake for it, except that the day 
Is ending and it will be hard for you 
To get to sleep tonight, at least until late. 

The shadow of the city injects its own 
Urgency: Rome where Francesco 
Was at work during the Sack: his inventions 
Amazed the soldiers who burst in on him; 
They decided to spare his life, but he left soon after; 
Vienna where the painting is today, where 
I saw it with Pierre in the summer of 1959; New York 
Where I am now, which is a logarithm 
Of other cities. Our landscape 
Is alive with filiations, shuttlings; 
Business is carried on by look, gesture, 
Hearsay. It is another life to the city, 
The backing of the looking glass of the 
Unidentified but precisely sketched studio. It wants 
To siphon off the life of the studio, deflate 
Its mapped space to enactments, island it. 
That operation has been temporarily stalled 
But something new is on the way, a new preciosity 
In the wind. Can you stand it, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Francesco? Are you strong enough for it? 
This wind brings what it knows not, is 
Self--propelled, blind, has no notion 
Of itself. It is inertia that once 
Acknowledged saps all activity, secret or public: 
Whispers of the word that can't be understood 
But can be felt, a chill, a blight 
Moving outward along the capes and peninsulas 
Of your nervures and so to the archipelagoes 
And to the bathed, aired secrecy of the open sea. 
This is its negative side. Its positive side is 
Making you notice life and the stresses 
That only seemed to go away, but now, 
As this new mode questions, are seen to be 
Hastening out of style. If they are to become classics 
They must decide which side they are on. 
Their reticence has undermined 



The urban scenery, made its ambiguities 
Look willful and tired, the games of an old man. 
What we need now is this unlikely 
Challenger pounding on the gates of an amazed 
Castle. Your argument, Francesco, 
Had begun to grow stale as no answer 
Or answers were forthcoming. If it dissolves now 
Into dust, that only means its time had come 
Some time ago, but look now, and listen: 
It may be that another life is stocked there 
In recesses no one knew of; that it, 
Not we, are the change; that we are in fact it 
If we could get back to it, relive some of the way 
It looked, turn our faces to the globe as it sets 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
And still be coming out all right: 
Nerves normal, breath normal. Since it is a metaphor 
Made to include us, we are a part of it and 
Can live in it as in fact we have done, 
Only leaving our minds bare for questioning 
We now see will not take place at random 
But in an orderly way that means to menace 
Nobody--the normal way things are done, 
Like the concentric growing up of days 
Around a life: correctly, if you think about it. 

A breeze like the turning of a page 
Brings back your face: the moment 
Takes such a big bite out of the haze 
Of pleasant intuition it comes after. 
The locking into place is "death itself," 
As Berg said of a phrase in Mahler's Ninth; 
Or, to quote Imogen in Cymbeline, "There cannot 
Be a pinch in death more sharp than this," for, 
Though only exercise or tactic, it carries 
The momentum of a conviction that had been building. 
Mere forgetfulness cannot remove it 
Nor wishing bring it back, as long as it remains 
The white precipitate of its dream 
In the climate of sighs flung across our world, 
A cloth over a birdcage. But it is certain that 
What is beautiful seems so only in relation to a specific 
Life, experienced or not, channeled into some form 



Steeped in the nostalgia of a collective past. 
The light sinks today with an enthusiasm 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
I have known elsewhere, and known why 
It seemed meaningful, that others felt this way 
Years ago. I go on consulting 
This mirror that is no longer mine 
For as much brisk vacancy as is to be 
My portion this time. And the vase is always full 
Because there is only just so much room 
And it accommodates everything. The sample 
One sees is not to be taken as 
Merely that, but as everything as it 
May be imagined outside time--not as a gesture 
But as all, in the refined, assimilable state. 
But what is this universe the porch of 
As it veers in and out, back and forth, 
Refusing to surround us and still the only 
Thing we can see? Love once 
Tipped the scales but now is shadowed, invisible, 
Though mysteriously present, around somewhere. 
But we know it cannot be sandwiched 
Between two adjacent moments, that its windings 
Lead nowhere except to further tributaries 
And that these empty themselves into a vague 
Sense of something that can never be known 
Even though it seems likely that each of us 
Knows what it is and is capable of 
Communicating it to the other. But the look 
Some wear as a sign makes one want to 
Push forward ignoring the apparent 
NaÏveté of the attempt, not caring 
That no one is listening, since the light 
Has been lit once and for all in their eyes 
And is present, unimpaired, a permanent anomaly, 
Awake and silent. On the surface of it 
There seems no special reason why that light 
Should be focused by love, or why 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
The city falling with its beautiful suburbs 
Into space always less clear, less defined, 
Should read as the support of its progress, 
The easel upon which the drama unfolded 
To its own satisfaction and to the end 



Of our dreaming, as we had never imagined 
It would end, in worn daylight with the painted 
Promise showing through as a gage, a bond. 
This nondescript, never-to-be defined daytime is 
The secret of where it takes place 
And we can no longer return to the various 
Conflicting statements gathered, lapses of memory 
Of the principal witnesses. All we know 
Is that we are a little early, that 
Today has that special, lapidary 
Todayness that the sunlight reproduces 
Faithfully in casting twig-shadows on blithe 
Sidewalks. No previous day would have been like this. 
I used to think they were all alike, 
That the present always looked the same to everybody 
But this confusion drains away as one 
Is always cresting into one's present. 
Yet the "poetic," straw-colored space 
Of the long corridor that leads back to the painting, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Its darkening opposite--is this 
Some figment of "art," not to be imagined 
As real, let alone special? Hasn't it too its lair 
In the present we are always escaping from 
And falling back into, as the waterwheel of days 
Pursues its uneventful, even serene course? 
I think it is trying to say it is today 
And we must get out of it even as the public 
Is pushing through the museum now so as to 
Be out by closing time. You can't live there. 
The gray glaze of the past attacks all know-how: 
Secrets of wash and finish that took a lifetime 
To learn and are reduced to the status of 
Black-and-white illustrations in a book where colorplates 
Are rare. That is, all time 
Reduces to no special time. No one 
Alludes to the change; to do so might 
Involve calling attention to oneself 
Which would augment the dread of not getting out 
Before having seen the whole collection 
(Except for the sculptures in the basement: 
They are where they belong). 
Our time gets to be veiled, compromised 



By the portrait's will to endure. It hints at 
Our own, which we were hoping to keep hidden. 
We don't need paintings or 
Doggerel written by mature poets when 
The explosion is so precise, so fine. 
Is there any point even in acknowledging 
The existence of all that? Does it 
Exist? Certainly the leisure to 
Indulge stately pastimes doesn't, 
Any more. Today has no margins, the event arrives 
Flush with its edges, is of the same substance, 
Indistinguishable. "Play" is something else; 
It exists, in a society specifically 
Organized as a demonstration of itself. 
There is no other way, and those assholes 
Who would confuse everything with their mirror games 
Which seem to multiply stakes and possibilities, or 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
At least confuse issues by means of an investing 
Aura that would corrode the architecture 
Of the whole in a haze of suppressed mockery, 
Are beside the point. They are out of the game, 
Which doesn't exist until they are out of it. 
It seems like a very hostile universe 
But as the principle of each individual thing is 
Hostile to, exists at the expense of all the others 
As philosophers have often pointed out, at least 
This thing, the mute, undivided present, 
Has the justification of logic, which 
In this instance isn't a bad thing 
Or wouldn't be, if the way of telling 
Didn't somehow intrude, twisting the end result 
Into a caricature of itself. This always 
Happens, as in the game where 
A whispered phrase passed around the room 
Ends up as something completely different. 
It is the principle that makes works of art so unlike 
What the artist intended. Often he finds 
He has omitted the thing he started out to say 
In the first place. Seduced by flowers, 
Explicit pleasures, he blames himself (though 
Secretly satisfied with the result), imagining 
He had a say in the matter and exercised 



An option of which he was hardly conscious, 
Unaware that necessity circumvents such resolutions. 
So as to create something new 
For itself, that there is no other way, 
That the history of creation proceeds according to 
Stringent laws, and that things 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Do get done in this way, but never the things 
We set out to accomplish and wanted so desperately 
To see come into being. Parmigianino 
Must have realized this as he worked at his 
Life-obstructing task. One is forced to read 
The perfectly plausible accomplishment of a purpose 
Into the smooth, perhaps even bland (but so 
Enigmatic) finish. Is there anything 
To be serious about beyond this otherness 
That gets included in the most ordinary 
Forms of daily activity, changing everything 
Slightly and profoundly, and tearing the matter 
Of creation, any creation, not just artistic creation 
Out of our hands, to install it on some monstrous, near 
Peak, too close to ignore, too far 
For one to intervene? This otherness, this 
"Not-being-us" is all there is to look at 
In the mirror, though no one can say 
How it came to be this way. A ship 
Flying unknown colors has entered the harbor. 
You are allowing extraneous matters 
To break up your day, cloud the focus 
Of the crystal ball. Its scene drifts away 
Like vapor scattered on the wind. The fertile 
Thought-associations that until now came 
So easily, appear no more, or rarely. Their 
Colorings are less intense, washed out 
By autumn rains and winds, spoiled, muddied, 
Given back to you because they are worthless. 
Yet we are such creatures of habit that their 
Implications are still around en permanence, confusing 
Issues. To be serious only about sex 
Is perhaps one way, but the sands are hissing 
As they approach the beginning of the big slide 
Into what happened. This past 
Is now here: the painter's 



Reflected face, in which we linger, receiving 
Dreams and inspirations on an unassigned 
Frequency, but the hues have turned metallic, 
The curves and edges are not so rich. Each person 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Has one big theory to explain the universe 
But it doesn't tell the whole story 
And in the end it is what is outside him 
That matters, to him and especially to us 
Who have been given no help whatever 
In decoding our own man-size quotient and must rely 
On second-hand knowledge. Yet I know 
That no one else's taste is going to be 
Any help, and might as well be ignored. 
Once it seemed so perfect--gloss on the fine 
Freckled skin, lips moistened as though about to part 
Releasing speech, and the familiar look 
Of clothes and furniture that one forgets. 
This could have been our paradise: exotic 
Refuge within an exhausted world, but that wasn't 
In the cards, because it couldn't have been 
The point. Aping naturalness may be the first step 
Toward achieving an inner calm 
But it is the first step only, and often 
Remains a frozen gesture of welcome etched 
On the air materializing behind it, 
A convention. And we have really 
No time for these, except to use them 
For kindling. The sooner they are burnt up 
The better for the roles we have to play. 
Therefore I beseech you, withdraw that hand, 
Offer it no longer as shield or greeting, 
The shield of a greeting, Francesco: 
There is room for one bullet in the chamber: 
Our looking through the wrong end 
Of the telescope as you fall back at a speed 
Faster than that of light to flatten ultimately 
Among the features of the room, an invitation 
Never mailed, the "it was all a dream" 
Syndrome, though the "all" tells tersely 
Enough how it wasn't. Its existence 
Was real, though troubled, and the ache 
Of this waking dream can never drown out 


<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

The diagram still sketched on the wind, 
Chosen, meant for me and materialized 
In the disguising radiance of my room. 
We have seen the city; it is the gibbous 
Mirrored eye of an insect. All things happen 
On its balcony and are resumed within, 
But the action is the cold, syrupy flow 
Of a pageant. One feels too confined, 
Sifting the April sunlight for clues, 
In the mere stillness of the ease of its 
Parameter. The hand holds no chalk 
And each part of the whole falls off 
And cannot know it knew, except 
Here and there, in cold pockets 
Of remembrance, whispers out of time. 




Soonest Mended 

Barely tolerated, living on the margin 
In our technological society, we were always having to be rescued 
On the brink of destruction, like heroines in Orlando Furioso 
Before it was time to start all over again. 
There would be thunder in the bushes, a rustling of coils, 
And Angelica, in the Ingres painting, was considering 
The colorful but small monster near her toe, as though wondering whether 
forgetting 
The whole thing might not, in the end, be the only solution. 
And then there always came a time when 
Happy Hooligan in his rusted green automobile 
Came plowing down the course, just to make sure everything was O.K., 
Only by that time we were in another chapter and confused 
About how to receive this latest piece of information. 
Was it information? Weren't we rather acting this out 
For someone else's benefit, thoughts in a mind 
With room enough and to spare for our little problems (so they began to seem), 
Our daily quandary about food and the rent and bills to be paid? 
To reduce all this to a small variant, 
To step free at last, minuscule on the gigantic plateau— 
This was our ambition: to be small and clear and free. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Alas, the summer's energy wanes quickly, 
A moment and it is gone. And no longer 
May we make the necessary arrangements, simple as they are. 
Our star was brighter perhaps when it had water in it. 
Now there is no question even of that, but only 
Of holding on to the hard earth so as not to get thrown off, 
With an occasional dream, a vision: a robin flies across 
The upper corner of the window, you brush your hair away 
And cannot quite see, or a wound will flash 
Against the sweet faces of the others, something like: 
This is what you wanted to hear, so why 
Did you think of listening to something else? We are all talkers 
It is true, but underneath the talk lies 
The moving and not wanting to be moved, the loose 
Meaning, untidy and simple like a threshing floor. 

These then were some hazards of the course, 
Yet though we knew the course was hazards and nothing else 



It was still a shock when, almost a quarter of a century later, 
The clarity of the rules dawned on you for the first time. 
They were the players, and we who had struggled at the game 
Were merely spectators, though subject to its vicissitudes 
And moving with it out of the tearful stadium, borne on shoulders, at last. 
Night after night this message returns, repeated 
In the flickering bulbs of the sky, raised past us, taken away from us, 
Yet ours over and over until the end that is past truth, 
The being of our sentences, in the climate that fostered them, 
Not ours to own, like a book, but to be with, and sometimes 
To be without, alone and desperate. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
But the fantasy makes it ours, a kind of fence-sitting 
Raised to the level of an esthetic ideal. These were moments, years, 
Solid with reality, faces, namable events, kisses, heroic acts, 
But like the friendly beginning of a geometrical progression 
Not too reassuring, as though meaning could be cast aside some day 
When it had been outgrown. Better, you said, to stay cowering 
Like this in the early lessons, since the promise of learning 
Is a delusion, and I agreed, adding that 
Tomorrow would alter the sense of what had already been learned, 
That the learning process is extended in this way, so that from this standpoint 
None of us ever graduates from college, 
For time is an emulsion, and probably thinking not to grow up 
Is the brightest kind of maturity for us, right now at any rate. 
And you see, both of us were right, though nothing 
Has somehow come to nothing; the avatars 
Of our conforming to the rules and living 
Around the home have made—well, in a sense, "good citizens" of us, 

Brushing the teeth and all that, and learning to accept 
The charity of the hard moments as they are doled out, 
For this is action, this not being sure, this careless 
Preparing, sowing the seeds crooked in the furrow, 
Making ready to forget, and always coming back 
To the mooring of starting out, that day so long ago. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>



Steel and Air 

And now I cannot remember how I would 
have had it. It is not a conduit (confluence?) but a place. 
The place, of movement and an order. 
The place of old order. 
But the tail end of the movement is new. 
Driving us to say what we are thinking. 
It is so much like a beach after all, where you stand 
and think of going no further. 
And it is good when you get to no further. 
It is like a reason that picks you up and 
places you where you always wanted to be. 
This far, it is fair to be crossing, to have crossed. 
Then there is no promise in the other. 
Here it is. Steel and air, a mottled presence, 
small panacea 
and lucky for us. 
And then it got very cool. 




Street Musicians 

One died, and the soul was wrenched out 
Of the other in life, who, walking the streets 
Wrapped in an identity like a coat, sees on and on 
The same corners, volumetrics, shadows 
Under trees. Farther than anyone was ever 
Called, through increasingly suburban airs 
And ways, with autumn falling over everything: 
The plush leaves the chattels in barrels 
Of an obscure family being evicted 
Into the way it was, and is. The other beached 
Glimpses of what the other was up to: 
Revelations at last. So they grew to hate and forget each other. 

So I cradle this average violin that knows 
Only forgotten showtunes, but argues 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
The possibility of free declamation anchored 
To a dull refrain, the year turning over on itself 
In November, with the spaces among the days 
More literal, the meat more visible on the bone. 
Our question of a place of origin hangs 
Like smoke: how we picnicked in pine forests, 
In coves with the water always seeping up, and left 
Our trash, sperm and excrement everywhere, smeared 
On the landscape, to make of us what we could. 




Syringa 

Orpheus liked the glad personal quality 
Of the things beneath the sky. Of course, Eurydice was a part 
Of this. Then one day, everything changed. He rends 
Rocks into fissures with lament. Gullies, hummocks 
Can't withstand it. The sky shudders from one horizon 
To the other, almost ready to give up wholeness. 
Then Apollo quietly told him: "Leave it all on earth. 
Your lute, what point? Why pick at a dull pavan few care to 
Follow, except a few birds of dusty feather, 
Not vivid performances of the past." But why not? 
All other things must change too. 
The seasons are no longer what they once were, 
But it is the nature of things to be seen only once, 
As they happen along, bumping into other things, getting along 
Somehow. That's where Orpheus made his mistake. 
Of course Eurydice vanished into the shade; 
She would have even if he hadn't turned around. 
No use standing there like a gray stone toga as the whole wheel 
Of recorded history flashes past, struck dumb, unable to 
utter an intelligent 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Comment on the most thought-provoking element in its train. 
Only love stays on the brain, and something these people, 
These other ones, call life. Singing accurately 
So that the notes mount straight up out of the well of 
Dim noon and rival the tiny, sparkling yellow flowers 
Growing around the brink of the quarry, encapsulizes 
The different weights of the things. 
But it isn't enough 
To just go on singing. Orpheus realized this 
And didn't mind so much about his reward being in heaven 
After the Bacchantes had torn him apart, driven 
Half out of their minds by his music, what it was doing to them. 
Some say it was for his treatment of Eurydice. 
But probably the music had more to do with it, and 
The way music passes, emblematic 
Of life and how you cannot isolate a note of it 
And say it is good or bad. You must 
Wait till it's over. "The end crowns all," 
Meaning also that the "tableau" 



Is wrong. For although memories, of a season, for example, 
Melt into a single snapshot, one cannot guard, treasure 
That stalled moment. It too is flowing, fleeting; 
It is a picture of flowing, scenery, though living, mortal, 
Over which an abstract action is laid out in blunt, 
Harsh strokes. And to ask more than this 
Is to become the tossing reeds of that slow, 
Powerful stream, the trailing grasses 
Playfully tugged at, but to participate in the action 
No more than this. Then in the lowering gentian sky 
Electric twitches are faintly apparent first, then burst forth 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Into a shower of fixed, cream-colored flares. The horses 
Have each seen a share of the truth, though each thinks, 
"I'm a maverick. Nothing of this is happening to me, 
Though I can understand the language of birds, and 
The itinerary of the lights caught in the storm is 
fully apparent to me. 
Their jousting ends in music much 
As trees move more easily in the wind after a summer storm 
And is happening in lacy shadows of shore-trees, now, 
day after day." 

But how late to be regretting all this, even 
Bearing in mind that regrets are always late, too late! 
To which Orpheus, a bluish cloud with white contours, 
Replies that these are of course not regrets at all, 
Merely a careful, scholarly setting down of 
Unquestioned facts, a record of pebbles along the way. 
And no matter how all this disappeared, 
Or got where it was going, it is no longer 
Material for a poem. Its subject 
Matters too much, and not enough, standing there helplessly 
While the poem streaked by, its tail afire, a bad 
Comet screaming hate and disaster, but so turned inward 
That the meaning, good or other, can never 
Become known. The singer thinks 
Constructively, builds up his chant in progressive stages 
Like a skyscraper, but at the last minute turns away. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
The song is engulfed in an instant in blackness 
Which must in turn flood the whole continent 
With blackness, for it cannot see. The singer 
Must then pass out of sight, not even relieved 



Of the evil burthen of the words. Stellification 
Is for the few, and comes about much later 
When all record of these people and their lives 
Has disappeared into libraries, onto microfilm. 
A few are still interested in them. "But what about 
So-and-so?" is still asked on occasion. But they lie 
Frozen and out of touch until an arbitrary chorus 
Speaks of a totally different incident with a similar name 
In whose tale are hidden syllables 
Of what happened so long before that 
In some small town, one different summer. 




The Bungalows 

Impatient as we were for all of them to join us, 
The land had not yet risen into view: gulls had swept the gray steel towers away 
So that it profited less to go searching, away over the humming earth 
Than to stay in immediate relation to these other things—boxes, store parts, 
whatever you wanted to call them— 
Whose installedness was the price of further revolutions, so you knew this 
combat was the last. 
And still the relationship waxed, billowed like scenery on the breeze. 

They are the same aren't they, 
The presumed landscape and the dream of home 
Because the people are all homesick today or desperately sleeping, 
Trying to remember how those rectangular shapes 
Became so extraneous and so near 
To create a foreground of quiet knowledge 
In which youth had grown old, chanting and singing wise hymns that 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Will sign for old age 
And so lift up the past to be persuaded, and be put down again. 

The warning is nothing more than an aspirate "h"; 
The problem is sketched completely, like fireworks mounted on poles: 
Complexion of evening, the accurate voices of the others. 
During Coca-Cola lessons it becomes patent 
Of noise on the left, and we had so skipped a stage that 
The great wave of the past, compounded in derision, 
Submerged idea and non-dreamer alike 
In falsetto starlight like "purity" 
Of design that had been the first danger sign 
To wash the sticky, icky stuff down the drain—pfui! 

How does it feel to be outside and inside at the same time, 
The delicious feeling of the air contradicting and secretly abetting 
The interior warmth? But the land curdles the dismay in which it's written 
Bearing to a final point of folly and doom 
The wisdom of these generations. 
Look at what you've done to the landscape— 
The ice cube, the olive— 
There is a perfect tri-city mesh of things 
Extending all the way along the river on both sides 



With the end left for thoughts on construction 
That are always turning to alps and thresholds 
Above the tide of others, feeding a European moss rose without glory. 

We shall very soon have the pleasure of recording 
A period of unanimous tergiversation in this respect 
And to make that pleasure the greater, it is worth while 
At the risk of tedious iteration, to put first upon record a final protest: 
Rather decaying art, genius, inspiration to hold to 
An impossible "calque" of reality, than 
"The new school of the trivial, rising up on the field of battle, 
Something of sludge and leaf-mold," and life 
Goes trickling out through the holes, like water through a sieve, 
All in one direction. 

You who were directionless, and thought it would solve everything if you found 
one, 
What do you make of this? Just because a thing is immortal 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Is that any reason to worship it? Death, after all, is immortal. 
But you have gone into your houses and shut the doors, meaning 
There can be no further discussion. 
And the river pursues its lonely course 
With the sky and the trees cast up from the landscape 
For green brings unhappiness—le vert Porte malheur. 
"The chartreuse mountain on the absinthe plain 
Makes the strong man's tears tumble down like rain." 

All this came to pass eons ago. 
Your program worked out perfectly. You even avoided 
The monotony of perfection by leaving in certain flaws: 
A backward way of becoming, a forced handshake, 
An absent-minded smile, though in fact nothing was left to chance. 
Each detail was startlingly clear, as though seen through a magnifying glass, 
Or would have been to an ideal observer, namely yourself— 
For only you could watch yourself so patiently from afar 
The way God watches a sinner on the path to redemption, 
Sometimes disappearing into valleys, but always on the way, 
For it all builds up into something, meaningless or meaningful 
As architecture, because planned and then abandoned when completed, 
To live afterwards, in sunlight and shadow, a certain amount of years. 
Who cares about what was there before? There is no going back, 
For standing still means death, and life is moving on, 



Moving on towards death. But sometimes standing still is also life. 



The Dong With The Luminous Nose 

Within a windowed niche of that high hall 
I wake and feel the fell of dark, not day. 
I shall rush out as I am, and walk the street 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
The lights begin to twinkle from the rocks 
From camp to camp, through the foul womb of night. 
Come, Shepherd, and again renew the quest. 
And birds sit brooding in the snow. 

Continuous as the stars that shine, 
When all men were asleep the snow came flying 
Near where the dirty Thames does flow 
Through caverns measureless to man, 
Where thou shalt see the red-gilled fishes leap 
And a lovely Monkey with lollipop paws 
Where the remote Bermudas ride. 

Softly, in the dusk, a woman is singing to me: 
This is the cock that crowed in the morn. 
Who'll be the parson? 
Beppo! That beard of yours becomes you not! 
A gentle answer did the old Man make: 
Farewell, ungrateful traitor, 
Bright as a seedsman's packet 
Where the quiet-coloured end of evening smiles. 

Obscurest night involved the sky 
And brickdust Moll had screamed through half a street: 
"Look in my face; my name is Might-have-been, 
Sylvan historian, who canst thus express 
Every night and alle, 
The happy highways where I went 
To the hills of Chankly Bore!" 

Where are you going to, my pretty maid? 
These lovers fled away into the storm 
And it's O dear, what can the matter be? 
For the wind is in the palm-trees, and the temple bells they say: 
Lay your sleeping head, my love, 
On the wide level of the mountain's head, 



Thoughtless as monarch oaks, that shade the plain, 
In autumn, on the skirts of Bagley Wood. 
A ship is floating in the harbour now, 
Heavy as frost, and deep almost as life! 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>



The Instruction Manual 

As I sit looking out of a window of the building 
I wish I did not have to write the instruction manual on the uses of a new metal. 
I look down into the street and see people, each walking with an inner peace, 
And envy them—they are so far away from me! 
Not one of them has to worry about getting out this manual on schedule. 
And, as my way is, I begin to dream, resting my elbows on the desk and leaning 
out of the window a little, 
Of dim Guadalajara! City of rose-colored flowers! 
City I wanted most to see, and most did not see, in Mexico! 
But I fancy I see, under the press of having to write the instruction manual, 
Your public square, city, with its elaborate little bandstand! 
The band is playing Scheherazade by Rimsky-Korsakov. 
Around stand the flower girls, handing out rose- and lemon-colored flowers, 
Each attractive in her rose-and-blue striped dress (Oh! such shades of rose and 
blue), 
And nearby is the little white booth where women in green serve you green and 
yellow fruit. 
The couples are parading; everyone is in a holiday mood. 
First, leading the parade, is a dapper fellow 
Clothed in deep blue. On his head sits a white hat 
And he wears a mustache, which has been trimmed for the occasion. 
His dear one, his wife, is young and pretty; her shawl is rose, pink, and white. 
Her slippers are patent leather, in the American fashion, 
And she carries a fan, for she is modest, and does not want the crowd to see her 
face too often. 
But everybody is so busy with his wife or loved one 
I doubt they would notice the mustachioed man's wife. 
Here come the boys! They are skipping and throwing little things on the sidewalk 
Which is made of gray tile. One of them, a little older, has a toothpick in his 
teeth. 
He is silenter than the rest, and affects not to notice the pretty young girls in 
white. 
But his friends notice them, and shout their jeers at the laughing girls. 
Yet soon all this will cease, with the deepening of their years, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
And love bring each to the parade grounds for another reason. 
But I have lost sight of the young fellow with the toothpick. 
Wait—there he is—on the other side of the bandstand, 
Secluded from his friends, in earnest talk with a young girl 
Of fourteen or fifteen. I try to hear what they are saying 



But it seems they are just mumbling something—shy words of love, probably. 
She is slightly taller than he, and looks quietly down into his sincere eyes. 
She is wearing white. The breeze ruffles her long fine black hair against her olive 
cheek. 
Obviously she is in love. The boy, the young boy with the toothpick, he is in love 
too; 
His eyes show it. Turning from this couple, 
I see there is an intermission in the concert. 
The paraders are resting and sipping drinks through straws 
(The drinks are dispensed from a large glass crock by a lady in dark blue), 
And the musicians mingle among them, in their creamy white uniforms, and talk 
About the weather, perhaps, or how their kids are doing at school. 

Let us take this opportunity to tiptoe into one of the side streets. 
Here you may see one of those white houses with green trim 
That are so popular here. Look—I told you! 
It is cool and dim inside, but the patio is sunny. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
An old woman in gray sits there, fanning herself with a palm leaf fan. 
She welcomes us to her patio, and offers us a cooling drink. 
"My son is in Mexico City," she says. "He would welcome you 
too 
If he were here. But his job is with a bank there. 
Look, here is a photograph of him." 
And a dark-skinned lad with pearly teeth grins out at us from the worn leather 
frame. 
We thank her for her hospitality, for it is getting late 
And we must catch a view of the city, before we leave, from a good high place. 
That church tower will do—the faded pink one, there against the fierce blue of 
the sky. Slowly we enter. 
The caretaker, an old man dressed in brown and gray, asks us how long we have 
been in the city, and how we like it here. 
His daughter is scrubbing the steps—she nods to us as we pass into the tower. 
Soon we have reached the top, and the whole network of the city extends before 
us. 
There is the rich quarter, with its houses of pink and white, and its crumbling, 
leafy terraces. 
There is the poorer quarter, its homes a deep blue. 
There is the market, where men are selling hats and swatting flies 
And there is the public library, painted several shades of pale green and beige. 
Look! There is the square we just came from, with the promenaders. 
There are fewer of them, now that the heat of the day has increased, 
But the young boy and girl still lurk in the shadows of the bandstand. 


<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

And there is the home of the little old lady— 
She is still sitting in the patio, fanning herself. 
How limited, but how complete withal, has been our experience of Guadalajara! 
We have seen young love, married love, and the love of an aged mother for her 
son. 
We have heard the music, tasted the drinks, and looked at colored houses. 
What more is there to do, except stay? And that we cannot do. 
And as a last breeze freshens the top of the weathered old tower, I turn my 
gaze 
Back to the instruction manual which has made me dream of Guadalajara. 




The Mauve Notebook 

"Say it enough times and it's August." 
—Geoffrey G. O'Brien, "Three Years" 
On a set you need bush rebels, 
that numbing little chair while passing. 
If we knock 'em out 
seven precincts are going to show up. 
It looks like you don't need oil. 
I think it'll be fine. 
Did she think that might be good, 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
or for the man who listens to it, 
nothing to be done or thought, 
(section pending)? 

Or for the man who listens to it, 
an abrupt yawn, history or the other. 
Home economics. Dr. Singalong 
can't find his way back. 
I don't know about that, but 
at her lamps do you still see 
the awkward ceremony, too serious? 
Leave it that way, imperfect start beyond 
where I was going. 
Prison outside the perpetual sonata, 
the only anxiety, 
since you wonder what they don't do, 
from your red zero heart page 
waiting to touch your face. 

Although they know about it and 
it literally doesn't exist, 
no, stay up and go to sleep, 
unless it falls on the right side of the brain 
positioned for so many forgeries, 
moon nugget... 

I don't cut 'em any slack. 
Assault on a clean front, 
that's a lot to be turning into. 



These residents, they start throwing 'em early. 
Continue to open your door to mud! 

Take the noon balloon to Rangoon, 
gutta percha academy, 
to the place of ice cream, 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
because, really, what difference does it make? 
When it was time you went home. 
Tears and flowers, 

see how dirty your hands are. 
We had a lovely dime. 
Soon it will be seven I ask you. 




The New Higher 

You meant more than life to me. I lived through 
you not knowing, not knowing I was living. 
I learned that you called for me. I came to where 
you were living, up a stair. There was no one there. 
No one to appreciate me. The legality of it 
upset a chair. Many times to celebrate 
we were called together and where 
we had been there was nothing there, 
nothing that is anywhere. We passed obliquely, 
leaving no stare. When the sun was done muttering, 
in an optimistic way, it was time to leave that there. 

Blithely passing in and out of where, blushing shyly 
at the tag on the overcoat near the window where 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
the outside crept away, I put aside the there and now. 
Now it was time to stumble anew, 
blacking out when time came in the window. 
There was not much of it left. 
I laughed and put my hands shyly 
across your eyes. Can you see now? 
Yes I can see I am only in the where 
where the blossoming stream takes off, under your window. 
Go presently you said. Go from my window. 
I am in love with your window I cannot undermine 
it, I said. 




The Painter 

Sitting between the sea and the buildings 
He enjoyed painting the sea's portrait. 
But just as children imagine a prayer 
Is merely silence, he expected his subject 
To rush up the sand, and, seizing a brush, 
Plaster its own portrait on the canvas. 

So there was never any paint on his canvas 
Until the people who lived in the buildings 
Put him to work: "Try using the brush 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
As a means to an end. Select, for a portrait, 
Something less angry and large, and more subject 
To a painter's moods, or, perhaps, to a prayer." 

How could he explain to them his prayer 
That nature, not art, might usurp the canvas? 
He chose his wife for a new subject, 
Making her vast, like ruined buildings, 
As if, forgetting itself, the portrait 
Had expressed itself without a brush. 

Slightly encouraged, he dipped his brush 
In the sea, murmuring a heartfelt prayer: 
"My soul, when I paint this next portrait 
Let it be you who wrecks the canvas." 
The news spread like wildfire through the buildings: 
He had gone back to the sea for his subject. 

Imagine a painter crucified by his subject! 
Too exhausted even to lift his brush, 
He provoked some artists leaning from the buildings 
To malicious mirth: "We haven't a prayer 
Now, of putting ourselves on canvas, 
Or getting the sea to sit for a portrait!" 

Others declared it a self-portrait. 
Finally all indications of a subject 
Began to fade, leaving the canvas 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Perfectly white. He put down the brush. 



At once a howl, that was also a prayer, 
Arose from the overcrowded buildings. 

They tossed him, the portrait, from the tallest of the buildings; 
And the sea devoured the canvas and the brush 
As though his subject had decided to remain a prayer. 




The Problem of Anxiety 

Fifty years have passed 
since I started living in those dark towns 
I was telling you about. 
Well, not much has changed. I still can't figure out 
how to get from the post office to the swings in the park. 
Apple trees blossom in the cold, not from conviction, 
and my hair is the color of dandelion fluff. 

Suppose this poem were about you - would you 
put in the things I've carefully left out: 
descriptions of pain, and sex, and how shiftily 
people behave toward each other? Naw, that's 
all in some book it seems. For you 
I've saved the descriptions of chicken sandwiches, 
and the glass eye that stares at me in amazement 
from the bronze mantel, and will never be appeased. 



<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

These Lacustrine Cities 

These lacustrine cities grew out of loathing 
Into something forgetful, although angry with history. 
They are the product of an idea: that man is horrible, for instance, 
Though this is only one example. 

They emerged until a tower 
Controlled the sky, and with artifice dipped back 
Into the past for swans and tapering branches, 
Burning, until all that hate was transformed into useless love. 

Then you are left with an idea of yourself 
And the feeling of ascending emptiness of the afternoon 
Which must be charged to the embarrassment of others 
Who fly by you like beacons. 

The night is a sentinel. 
Much of your time has been occupied by creative games 
Until now, but we have all-inclusive plans for you. 
We had thought, for instance, of sending you to the middle of the desert, 

To a violent sea, or of having the closeness of the others be air 
To you, pressing you back into a startled dream 
As sea-breezes greet a child's face. 
But the past is already here, and you are nursing some private project. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

The worst is not over, yet I know 
You will be happy here. Because of the logic 
Of your situation, which is something no climate can outsmart. 
Tender and insouciant by turns, you see 

You have built a mountain of something, 
Thoughtfully pouring all your energy into this single monument, 
Whose wind is desire starching a petal, 
Whose disappointment broke into a rainbow of tears. 




This Room 

The room I entered was a dream of this room. 
Surely all those feet on the sofa were mine. 
The oval portrait 
of a dog was me at an early age. 
Something shimmers, something is hushed up. 

We had macaroni for lunch every day 
except Sunday, when a small quail was induced 
to be served to us. Why do I tell you these things? 
You are not even here. 




Uptick 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>

We were sitting there, and 
I made a joke about how 
it doesn't dovetail: time, 
one minute running out 
faster than the one in front 
it catches up to. 
That way, I said, 
there can be no waste. 
Waste is virtually eliminated. 

To come back for a few hours to 
the present subject, a painting, 
looking like it was seen, 
half turning around, slightly apprehensive, 
but it has to pay attention 
to what's up ahead: a vision. 
Therefore poetry dissolves in 
brilliant moisture and reads us 
to us. 
A faint notion. Too many words, 
but precious. 




Vetiver 

Ages passed slowly, like a load of hay, 
As the flowers recited their lines 
And pike stirred at the bottom of the pond. 
The pen was cool to the touch. 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
The staircase swept upward 
Through fragmented garlands, keeping the melancholy 
Already distilled in letters of the alphabet. 

It would be time for winter now, its spun-sugar 
Palaces and also lines of care 
At the mouth, pink smudges on the forehead and cheeks, 
The color once known as "ashes of roses." 
How many snakes and lizards shed their skins 
For time to be passing on like this, 
Sinking deeper in the sand as it wound toward 
The conclusion. It had all been working so well and now, 
Well, it just kind of came apart in the hand 
As a change is voiced, sharp 
As a fishhook in the throat, and decorative tears flowed 
Past us into a basin called infinity. 

There was no charge for anything, the gates 
Had been left open intentionally. 
Don't follow, you can have whatever it is. 
And in some room someone examines his youth, 
Finds it dry and hollow, porous to the touch. 
O keep me with you, unless the outdoors 
Embraces both of us, unites us, unless 
The birdcatchers put away their twigs, 
The fishermen haul in their sleek empty nets 
And others become part of the immense crowd 
Around this bonfire, a situation 
That has come to mean us to us, and the crying 
In the leaves is saved, the last silver drops. 




Wet Casements 

When Eduard Raban, coming along the passage, walked into the 
open doorway, he saw that it was raining. It was not raining much.

 KAFKA, Wedding Preparations in the Country 
The concept is interesting: to see, as though reflected 
In streaming windowpanes, the look of others through 
Their own eyes. A digest of their correct impressions of 
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
Their self-analytical attitudes overlaid by your 
Ghostly transparent face. You in falbalas 
Of some distant but not too distant era, the cosmetics, 
The shoes perfectly pointed, drifting (how long you 
Have been drifting; how long I have too for that matter) 
Like a bottle-imp toward a surface which can never be

 approached, 
Never pierced through into the timeless energy of a present 
Which would have its own opinions on these matters, 
Are an epistemological snapshot of the processes 
That first mentioned your name at some crowded cocktail 
Party long ago, and someone (not the person addressed) 
Overheard it and carried that name around in his wallet 
For years as the wallet crumbled and bills slid in 
And out of it. I want that information very much today, 

Can't have it, and this makes me angry. 
I shall use my anger to build a bridge like that 
Of Avignon, on which people may dance for the feeling 
Of dancing on a bridge. I shall at last see my complete face 
Reflected not in the water but in the worn stone floor of my bridge. 

I shall keep to myself. 
I shall not repeat others' comments about me. 

<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>



Wet Casements 

When Eduard Raban, coming along the passage, walked into the 
open doorway, he saw that it was raining. It was not raining much. 
KAFKA, Wedding Preparations in the Country 

The concept is interesting: to see, as though reflected 
In streaming windowpanes, the look of others through 
Their own eyes. A digest of their correct impressions of 
Their self-analytical attitudes overlaid by your 
Ghostly transparent face. You in falbalas 
Of some distant but not too distant era, the cosmetics, 
The shoes perfectly pointed, drifting (how long you 
Have been drifting; how long I have too for that matter) 
Like a bottle-imp toward a surface which can never be

 approached, 
Never pierced through into the timeless energy of a present 
Which would have its own opinions on these matters, 
Are an epistemological snapshot of the processes 
That first mentioned your name at some crowded cocktail 
Party long ago, and someone (not the person addressed) 
Overheard it and carried that name around in his wallet 
For years as the wallet crumbled and bills slid in 
And out of it. I want that information very much today, 

Can't have it, and this makes me angry. 
I shall use my anger to build a bridge like that 
Of Avignon, on which people may dance for the feeling 
Of dancing on a bridge. I shall at last see my complete face 
Reflected not in the water but in the worn stone floor of my bridge. 

I shall keep to myself. 
I shall not repeat others' comments about me. 


<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>


