A Bronzeville Mother Loiters In Mississippi. Meanwhile, 
A Mississippi Mother Burns Bacon 
From the first it had been like a 
Ballad. It had the beat inevitable. It had the blood. 
A wildness cut up, and tied in little bunches, 
Like the four-line stanzas of the ballads she had never quite 
understood--the ballads they had set her to, in school. 
Herself: the milk-white maid, the "maid mild" 
Of the ballad. Pursued 
By the Dark Villain. Rescued by the Fine Prince. 
The Happiness-Ever-After. 
That was worth anything. 
It was good to be a "maid mild." 
That made the breath go fast. 
Her bacon burned. She 
Hastened to hide it in the step-on can, and 
Drew more strips from the meat case. The eggs and sour-milk biscuits 
Did well. She set out a jar 
Of her new quince preserve. 
. . . But there was something about the matter of the Dark Villain. 
He should have been older, perhaps. 
The hacking down of a villain was more fun to think about 
When his menace possessed undisputed breath, undisputed height, 
And best of all, when history was cluttered 
With the bones of many eaten knights and princesses. 
The fun was disturbed, then all but nullified 
When the Dark Villain was a blackish child 
Of Fourteen, with eyes still too young to be dirty, 
And a mouth too young to have lost every reminder 
Of its infant softness. 
That boy must have been surprised! For 
These were grown-ups. Grown-ups were supposed to be wise. 
And the Fine Prince--and that other--so tall, so broad, so 
Grown! Perhaps the boy had never guessed 
That the trouble with grown-ups was that under the magnificent shell of 
adulthood, just under, 
Waited the baby full of tantrums. 
It occurred to her that there may have been something 
Ridiculous to the picture of the Fine Prince 
Rushing (rich with the breadth and height and 
Mature solidness whose lack, in the Dark Villain, was impressing her, 
Confronting her more and more as this first day after the trial 
And acquittal (wore on) rushing 
With his heavy companion to hack down (unhorsed) 
That little foe. So much had happened, she could not remember now what that 
foe had done 
Against her, or if anything had been done. 
The breaks were everywhere. That she could think 
Of no thread capable of the necessary 
Sew-work. 
She made the babies sit in their places at the table. 
Then, before calling HIM, she hurried 
To the mirror with her comb and lipstick. It was necessary 
To be more beautiful than ever. 
The beautiful wife. 
For sometimes she fancied he looked at her as though 
Measuring her. As if he considered, Had she been worth it? 
Had she been worth the blood, the cramped cries, the little stirring bravado, The 
gradual dulling of those Negro eyes, 
The sudden, overwhelming little-boyness in that barn? 
Whatever she might feel or half-feel, the lipstick necessity was something apart. 
HE must never conclude 
That she had not been worth it. 
HE sat down, the Fine Prince, and 
Began buttering a biscuit. HE looked at HIS hands. 
More papers were in from the North, HE mumbled. More maddening headlines. 
With their pepper-words, "bestiality," and "barbarism," and 
"Shocking." 
The half-sneers HE had mastered for the trial worked across 
HIS sweet and pretty face. 
What HE'd like to do, HE explained, was kill them all. 
The time lost. The unwanted fame. 
Still, it had been fun to show those intruders 
A thing or two. To show that snappy-eyed mother, 
That sassy, Northern, brown-black-
Nothing could stop Mississippi. 
HE knew that. Big fella 
Knew that. 
And, what was so good, Mississippi knew that. 
They could send in their petitions, and scar 
Their newspapers with bleeding headlines. Their governors 
Could appeal to Washington . . . 
"What I want," the older baby said, "is 'lasses on my jam." 
Whereupon the younger baby 
Picked up the molasses pitcher and threw 
The molasses in his brother's face. Instantly 
The Fine Prince leaned across the table and slapped 
The small and smiling criminal. 
She did not speak. When the HAND 
Came down and away, and she could look at her child, 
At her baby-child, 
She could think only of blood. 
Surely her baby's cheek 
Had disappeared, and in its place, surely, 
Hung a heaviness, a lengthening red, a red that had no end. 
She shook her had. It was not true, of course. 
It was not true at all. The 
Child's face was as always, the 
Color of the paste in her paste-jar. 
She left the table, to the tune of the children's lamentations, which were shriller 
Than ever. She 
Looked out of a window. She said not a word. That 
Was one of the new Somethings-The 
fear, 
Tying her as with iron. 
Suddenly she felt his hands upon her. He had followed her 
To the window. The children were whimpering now. 
Such bits of tots. And she, their mother, 
Could not protect them. She looked at her shoulders, still 
Gripped in the claim of his hands. She tried, but could not resist the idea 
That a red ooze was seeping, spreading darkly, thickly, slowly, 
Over her white shoulders, her own shoulders, 
And over all of Earth and Mars. 
He whispered something to her, did the Fine Prince, something about love and 
night and intention. 
She heard no hoof-beat of the horse and saw no flash of the shining steel. 
He pulled her face around to meet 
His, and there it was, close close, 
For the first time in all the days and nights. 
His mouth, wet and red, 
So very, very, very red, 
Closed over hers. 
Then a sickness heaved within her. The courtroom Coca-Cola, 
The courtroom beer and hate and sweat and drone, 
Pushed like a wall against her. She wanted to bear it. 
But his mouth would not go away and neither would the 
Decapitated exclamation points in that Other Woman's eyes. 
She did not scream. 
She stood there. 
But a hatred for him burst into glorious flower, 
And its perfume enclasped them--big, 
Bigger than all magnolias. 
The last bleak news of the ballad. 
The rest of the rugged music. 
The last quatrain. 
A Penitent Considers Another Coming Of Mary
 For Reverend Theodore Richardson 
If Mary came would Mary 
Forgive, as Mothers may, 
And sad and second Saviour 
Furnish us today? 
She would not shake her head and leave 
This military air, 
But ratify a modern hay, 
And put her Baby there. 
Mary would not punish men— 
If Mary came again. 
A Song In The Front Yard 
I’ve stayed in the front yard all my life. 
I want a peek at the back 
Where it’s rough and untended and hungry weed grows. 
A girl gets sick of a rose. 
I want to go in the back yard now 
And maybe down the alley, 
To where the charity children play. 
I want a good time today. 
They do some wonderful things. 
They have some wonderful fun. 
My mother sneers, but I say it’s fine 
How they don’t have to go in at quarter to nine. 
My mother, she tells me that Johnnie Mae 
Will grow up to be a bad woman. 
That George’ll be taken to Jail soon or late 
(On account of last winter he sold our back gate). 
But I say it’s fine. Honest, I do. 
And I’d like to be a bad woman, too, 
And wear the brave stockings of night-black lace 
And strut down the streets with paint on my face. 
A Sunset Of The City 
Already I am no longer looked at with lechery or love. 
My daughters and sons have put me away with marbles and dolls, 
Are gone from the house. 
My husband and lovers are pleasant or somewhat polite 
And night is night. 
It is a real chill out, 
The genuine thing. 
I am not deceived, I do not think it is still summer 
Because sun stays and birds continue to sing. 
It is summer-gone that I see, it is summer-gone. 
The sweet flowers indrying and dying down, 
The grasses forgetting their blaze and consenting to brown. 
It is a real chill out. The fall crisp comes 
I am aware there is winter to heed. 
There is no warm house 
That is fitted with my need. 
I am cold in this cold house this house 
Whose washed echoes are tremulous down lost halls. 
I am a woman, and dusty, standing among new affairs. 
I am a woman who hurries through her prayers. 
Tin intimations of a quiet core to be my 
Desert and my dear relief 
Come: there shall be such islanding from grief, 
And small communion with the master shore. 
Twang they. And I incline this ear to tin, 
Consult a dual dilemma. Whether to dry 
In humming pallor or to leap and die. 
Somebody muffed it?? Somebody wanted to joke. 
Boy Breaking Glass 
To Marc Crawford 
from whom the commission 
Whose broken window is a cry of art 
(success, that winks aware 
as elegance, as a treasonable faith) 
is raw: is sonic: is old-eyed première. 
Our beautiful flaw and terrible ornament. 
Our barbarous and metal little man. 
“I shall create! If not a note, a hole. 
If not an overture, a desecration.” 
Full of pepper and light 
and Salt and night and cargoes. 
“Don’t go down the plank 
if you see there’s no extension. 
Each to his grief, each to 
his loneliness and fidgety revenge. 
Nobody knew where I was and now I am no longer there.” 
The only sanity is a cup of tea. 
The music is in minors. 
Each one other 
is having different weather. 
“It was you, it was you who threw away my name! 
And this is everything I have for me.” 
Who has not Congress, lobster, love, luau, 
the Regency Room, the Statue of Liberty, 
runs. A sloppy amalgamation. 
A mistake. 
A cliff. 
A hymn, a snare, and an exceeding sun. 
Garbageman: The Man With The Orderly Mind 
What do you think of us in fuzzy endeavor, you whose directions are 
sterling, whose lunge is straight? 
Can you make a reason, how can you pardon us who memorize the rules and 
never score? 
Who memorize the rules from your own text but never quite transfer them to the 
game, 
Who never quite receive the whistling ball, who gawk, begin to absorb the 
crowd's own roar. 
Is earnest enough, may earnest attract or lead to light; 
Is light enough, if hands in clumsy frenzy, flimsy whimsically, enlist; 
Is light enough when this bewilderment crying against the dark shuts down the 
shades? 
Dilute confusion. Find and explode our mist. 
Jessie Mitchell’s Mother 
Into her mother’s bedroom to wash the ballooning body. 
“My mother is jelly-hearted and she has a brain of jelly: 
Sweet, quiver-soft, irrelevant. Not essential. 
Only a habit would cry if she should die. 
A pleasant sort of fool without the least iron. . . . 
Are you better, mother, do you think it will come today?” 
The stretched yellow rag that was Jessie Mitchell’s mother 
Reviewed her. Young, and so thin, and so straight. 
So straight! as if nothing could ever bend her. 
But poor men would bend her, and doing things with poor men, 
Being much in bed, and babies would bend her over, 
And the rest of things in life that were for poor women, 
Coming to them grinning and pretty with intent to bend and to kill. 
Comparisons shattered her heart, ate at her bulwarks: 
The shabby and the bright: she, almost hating her daughter, 
Crept into an old sly refuge: “Jessie’s black 
And her way will be black, and jerkier even than mine. 
Mine, in fact, because I was lovely, had flowers 
Tucked in the jerks, flowers were here and there. . . .” 
She revived for the moment settled and dried-up triumphs, 
Forced perfume into old petals, pulled up the droop, 
Refueled 
Triumphant long-exhaled breaths. 
Her exquisite yellow youth . . . 
Kitchenette Building 
We are things of dry hours and the involuntary plan, 
Grayed in, and gray. "Dream" mate, a giddy sound, not strong 
Like "rent", "feeding a wife", "satisfying a man". 
But could a dream sent up through onion fumes 
Its white and violet, fight with fried potatoes 
And yesterday's garbage ripening in the hall, 
Flutter, or sing an aria down these rooms, 
Even if we were willing to let it in, 
Had time to warm it, keep it very clean, 
Anticipate a message, let it begin? 
We wonder. But not well! not for a minute! 
Since Number Five is out of the bathroom now, 
We think of lukewarm water, hope to get in it. 
Mayor Harold Washington 
Mayor. Worldman. Historyman. 
Beyond steps that occur and close, 
your steps are echo-makers. 
You can never be forgotten. 
We begin our health. 
We enter the Age of Alliance. 
This is our senior adventure. 
My Dreams, My Works, Must Wait Till After Hell 
I hold my honey and I store my bread 
In little jars and cabinets of my will. 
I label clearly, and each latch and lid 
I bid, Be firm till I return from hell. 
I am very hungry. I am incomplete. 
And none can give me any word but Wait, 
The puny light. I keep my eyes pointed in; 
Hoping that, when the devil days of my hurt 
Drag out to their last dregs and I resume 
On such legs as are left me, in such heart 
As I can manage, remember to go home, 
My taste will not have turned insensitive 
To honey and bread old purity could love. 
Of De Witt Williams On His Way To Lincoln Cemetery 
He was born in Alabama. 
He was bred in Illinois. 
He was nothing but a 
Plain black boy. 
Swing low swing low sweet sweet chariot. 
Nothing but a plain black boy. 
Drive him past the Pool Hall. 
Drive him past the Show. 
Blind within his casket, 
But maybe he will know. 
Down through Forty-seventh Street: 
Underneath the L, 
And Northwest Corner, Prairie, 
That he loved so well. 
Don’t forget the Dance Halls— 
Warwick and Savoy, 
Where he picked his women, where 
He drank his liquid joy. 
Born in Alabama. 
Bred in Illinois. 
He was nothing but a 
Plain black boy. 
Swing low swing low sweet sweet chariot. 
Nothing but a plain black boy. 
Of Robert Frost 
There is a little lightning in his eyes. 
Iron at the mouth. 
His brows ride neither too far up nor down. 
He is splendid. With a place to stand. 
Some glowing in the common blood. 
Some specialness within. 
One Wants A Teller In A Time Like This 
One wants a teller in a time like this 
One's not a man, one's not a woman grown 
To bear enormous business all alone. 
One cannot walk this winding street with pride 
Straight-shouldered, tranquil-eyed, 
Knowing one knows for sure the way back home. 
One wonders if one has a home. 
One is not certain if or why or how. 
One wants a Teller now: 
Put on your rubbers and you won't catch a cold 
Here's hell, there's heaven. Go to Sunday School 
Be patient, time brings all good things-(and cool 
Stong balm to calm the burning at the brain?) 
Behold, 
Love's true, and triumphs; and God's actual. 
Primer For Blacks 
Blackness 
is a title, 
is a preoccupation, 
is a commitment Blacks 
are to comprehend— 
and in which you are 
to perceive your Glory. 
The conscious shout 
of all that is white is 
“It’s Great to be white.” 
The conscious shout 
of the slack in Black is 
'It's Great to be white.' 
Thus all that is white 
has white strength and yours. 
The word Black 
has geographic power, 
pulls everybody in: 
Blacks here— 
Blacks there— 
Blacks wherever they may be. 
And remember, you Blacks, what they told you— 
remember your Education: 
“one Drop—one Drop 
maketh a brand new Black.” 
Oh mighty Drop. 
______And because they have given us kindly 
so many more of our people 
Blackness 
stretches over the land. 
Blackness— 
the Black of it, 
the rust-red of it, 
the milk and cream of it, 
the tan and yellow-tan of it, 
the deep-brown middle-brown high-brown of it, 
the “olive” and ochre of it— 
Blackness 
marches on. 
The huge, the pungent object of our prime out-ride 
is to Comprehend, 
to salute and to Love the fact that we are Black, 
which is our “ultimate Reality,” 
which is the lone ground 
from which our meaningful metamorphosis, 
from which our prosperous staccato, 
group or individual, can rise. 
Self-shriveled Blacks. 
Begin with gaunt and marvelous concession: 
YOU are our costume and our fundamental bone.
 All of you— 
you COLORED ones, 
you NEGRO ones, 
those of you who proudly cry 
“I’m half INDian”— 
those of you who proudly screech 
“I’VE got the blood of George WASHington in MY veins” 
ALL of you—
 you proper Blacks, 
you half-Blacks, 
you wish-I-weren’t Blacks, 
Niggeroes and Niggerenes.
 You. 
Riot
 A riot is the language of the unheard. 
—martin luther king 
John Cabot, out of Wilma, once a Wycliffe, 
all whitebluerose below his golden hair, 
wrapped richly in right linen and right wool, 
almost forgot his Jaguar and Lake Bluff; 
almost forgot Grandtully (which is The 
Best Thing That Ever Happened To Scotch); almost 
forgot the sculpture at the Richard Gray 
and Distelheim; the kidney pie at Maxim’s, 
the Grenadine de Boeuf at Maison Henri. 
Because the Negroes were coming down the street. 
Because the Poor were sweaty and unpretty 
(not like Two Dainty Negroes in Winnetka) 
and they were coming toward him in rough ranks. 
In seas. In windsweep. They were black and loud. 
And not detainable. And not discreet. 
Gross. Gross. “Que tu es grossier!” John Cabot 
itched instantly beneath the nourished white 
that told his story of glory to the World. 
“Don’t let It touch me! the blackness! Lord!” he whispered 
to any handy angel in the sky. 
But, in a thrilling announcement, on It drove 
and breathed on him: and touched him. In that breath 
the fume of pig foot, chitterling and cheap chili, 
malign, mocked John. And, in terrific touch, old 
averted doubt jerked forward decently, 
cried, “Cabot! John! You are a desperate man, 
and the desperate die expensively today.” 
John Cabot went down in the smoke and fire 
and broken glass and blood, and he cried “Lord! 
Forgive these nigguhs that know not what they do.” 
Sadie And Maud 
Maud went to college. 
Sadie stayed home. 
Sadie scraped life 
With a fine toothed comb. 
She didn't leave a tangle in 
Her comb found every strand. 
Sadie was one of the livingest chicks 
In all the land. 
Sadie bore two babies 
Under her maiden name. 
Maud and Ma and Papa 
Nearly died of shame. 
When Sadie said her last so-long 
Her girls struck out from home. 
(Sadie left as heritage 
Her fine-toothed comb.) 
Maud, who went to college, 
Is a thin brown mouse. 
She is living all alone 
In this old house. 
Speech To The Young : Speech To The Progress-
Toward 
Say to them, 
say to the down-keepers, 
the sun-slappers, 
the self-soilers, 
the harmony-hushers, 
"even if you are not ready for day 
it cannot always be night." 
You will be right. 
For that is the hard home-run. 
Live not for battles won. 
Live not for the-end-of-the-song. 
Live in the along. 
The Ballad Of Rudolph Reed 
Rudolph Reed was oaken. 
His wife was oaken too. 
And his two good girls and his good little man 
Oakened as they grew. 
"I am not hungry for berries. 
I am not hungry for bread. 
But hungry hungry for a house 
Where at night a man in bed 
"May never hear the plaster 
Stir as if in pain. 
May never hear the roaches 
Falling like fat rain. 
"Where never wife and children need 
Go blinking through the gloom. 
Where every room of many rooms 
Will be full of room. 
"Oh my home may have its east or west 
Or north or south behind it. 
All I know is I shall know it, 
And fight for it when I find it." 
The agent's steep and steady stare 
Corroded to a grin. 
Why you black old, tough old hell of a man, 
Move your family in! 
Nary a grin grinned Rudolph Reed, 
Nary a curse cursed he, 
But moved in his House. With his dark little wife, 
And his dark little children three. 
A neighbor would look, with a yawning eye 
That squeezed into a slit. 
But the Rudolph Reeds and children three 
Were too joyous to notice it. 
For were they not firm in a home of their own 
With windows everywhere 
And a beautiful banistered stair 
And a front yard for flowers and a back for grass? 
The first night, a rock, big as two fists. 
The second, a rock big as three. 
But nary a curse cursed Rudolph Reed. 
(Though oaken as man could be.) 
The third night, a silvery ring of glass. 
Patience arched to endure, 
But he looked, and lo! small Mabel's blood 
Was staining her gaze so pure. 
Then up did rise our Roodoplh Reed 
And pressed the hand of his wife, 
And went to the door with a thirty-four 
And a beastly butcher knife. 
He ran like a mad thing into the night 
And the words in his mouth were stinking. 
By the time he had hurt his first white man 
He was no longer thinking. 
By the time he had hurt his fourth white man 
Rudolph Reed was dead. 
His neighbors gathered and kicked his corpse. 
"Nigger--" his neighbors said. 
Small Mabel whimpered all night long, 
For calling herself the cause. 
Her oak-eyed mother did no thing 
But change the bloody gauze. 
The Bean Eaters 
They eat beans mostly, this old yellow pair. 
Dinner is a casual affair. 
Plain chipware on a plain and creaking wood, 
Tin flatware. 
Two who are Mostly Good. 
Two who have lived their day, 
But keep on putting on their clothes 
And putting things away. 
And remembering . . . 
Remembering, with twinklings and twinges, 
As they lean over the beans in their rented back room that 
is full of beads and receipts and dolls and cloths, 
tobacco crumbs, vases and fringes. 
The Blackstone Rangers 
I 
AS SEEN BY DISCIPLINES 
There they are. 
Thirty at the corner. 
Black, raw, ready. 
Sores in the city 
that do not want to heal. 
II 
THE LEADERS 
Jeff. Gene. Geronimo. And Bop. 
They cancel, cure and curry. 
Hardly the dupes of the downtown thing 
the cold bonbon, 
the rhinestone thing. And hardly 
in a hurry. 
Hardly Belafonte, King, 
Black Jesus, Stokely, Malcolm X or Rap. 
Bungled trophies. 
Their country is a Nation on no map. 
Jeff, Gene, Geronimo and Bop 
in the passionate noon, 
in bewitching night 
are the detailed men, the copious men. 
They curry, cure, 
they cancel, cancelled images whose Concerts 
are not divine, vivacious; the different tins 
are intense last entries; pagan argument; 
translations of the night. 
The Blackstone bitter bureaus 
(bureaucracy is footloose) edit, fuse 
unfashionable damnations and descent; 
and exulting, monstrous hand on monstrous hand, 
construct, strangely, a monstrous pearl or grace. 
III 
GANG GIRLS 
A Rangerette 
Gang Girls are sweet exotics. 
Mary Ann 
uses the nutrients of her orient, 
but sometimes sighs for Cities of blue and jewel 
beyond her Ranger rim of Cottage Grove. 
(Bowery Boys, Disciples, Whip-Birds will 
dissolve no margins, stop no savory sanctities.) 
Mary is 
a rose in a whiskey glass. 
Mary’s 
Februaries shudder and are gone. Aprils 
fret frankly, lilac hurries on. 
Summer is a hard irregular ridge. 
October looks away. 
And that’s the Year!
 Save for her bugle-love. 
Save for the bleat of not-obese devotion. 
Save for Somebody Terribly Dying, under 
the philanthropy of robins. Save for her Ranger 
bringing 
an amount of rainbow in a string-drawn bag. 
“Where did you get the diamond?” Do not ask: 
but swallow, straight, the spirals of his flask 
and assist him at your zipper; pet his lips 
and help him clutch you. 
Love’s another departure. 
Will there be any arrivals, confirmations? 
Will there be gleaning? 
Mary, the Shakedancer’s child 
from the rooming-flat, pants carefully, peers at 
her laboring lover ....
 Mary! Mary Ann! 
Settle for sandwiches! settle for stocking caps! 
for sudden blood, aborted carnival, 
the props and niceties of non-loneliness— 
the rhymes of Leaning. 
The Children Of The Poor 
1 
People who have no children can be hard: 
Attain a mail of ice and insolence: 
Need not pause in the fire, and in no sense 
Hesitate in the hurricane to guard. 
And when wide world is bitten and bewarred 
They perish purely, waving their spirits hence 
Without a trace of grace or of offense 
To laugh or fail, diffident, wonder-starred. 
While through a throttling dark we others hear 
The little lifting helplessness, the queer 
Whimper-whine; whose unridiculous 
Lost softness softly makes a trap for us. 
And makes a curse. And makes a sugar of 
The malocclusions, the inconditions of love. 
2 
What shall I give my children? who are poor, 
Who are adjudged the leastwise of the land, 
Who are my sweetest lepers, who demand 
No velvet and no velvety velour; 
But who have begged me for a brisk contour, 
Crying that they are quasi, contraband 
Because unfinished, graven by a hand 
Less than angelic, admirable or sure. 
My hand is stuffed with mode, design, device. 
But I lack access to my proper stone. 
And plenitude of plan shall not suffice 
Nor grief nor love shall be enough alone 
To ratify my little halves who bear 
Across an autumn freezing everywhere. 
3 
And shall I prime my children, pray, to pray? 
Mites, come invade most frugal vestibules 
Spectered with crusts of penitents’ renewals 
And all hysterics arrogant for a day. 
Instruct yourselves here is no devil to pay. 
Children, confine your lights in jellied rules; 
Resemble graves; be metaphysical mules. 
Learn Lord will not distort nor leave the fray. 
Behind the scurryings of your neat motif 
I shall wait, if you wish: revise the psalm 
If that should frighten you: sew up belief 
If that should tear: turn, singularly calm 
At forehead and at fingers rather wise, 
Holding the bandage ready for your eyes. 
The Crazy Woman 
I shall not sing a May song. 
A May song should be gay. 
I'll wait until November 
And sing a song of gray. 
I'll wait until November 
That is the time for me. 
I'll go out in the frosty dark 
And sing most terribly. 
And all the little people 
Will stare at me and say, 
"That is the Crazy Woman 
Who would not sing in May." 
Anonymous submission. 
The Good Man 
The good man. 
He is still enhancer, renouncer. 
In the time of detachment, 
in the time of the vivid heather and affectionate evil, 
in the time of oral 
grave grave legalities of hate - all real 
walks our prime registered reproach and seal. 
Our successful moral. 
The good man. 
Watches our bogus roses, our rank wreath, our 
love's unreliable cement, the gray 
jubilees of our demondom. 
Coherent 
Counsel! Good man. 
Require of us our terribly excluded blue. 
Constrain, repair a ripped, revolted land. 
Put hand in hand land over. 
Reprove 
the abler droughts and manias of the day 
and a felicity entreat. 
Love. 
Complete 
your pledges, reinforce your aides, renew 
stance, testament. 
The Independent Man 
Now who could take you off to tiny life 
In one room or in two rooms or in three 
And cork you smartly, like the flask of wine 
You are? Not any woman. Not a wife. 
You'd let her twirl you, give her a good glee 
Showing your leaping ruby to a friend. 
Though twirling would be meek. Since not a cork 
Could you allow, for being made so free. 
A woman would be wise to think it well 
If once a week you only rang the bell. 
The Life Of Lincoln West 
Ugliest little boy 
that everyone ever saw. 
That is what everyone said. 
Even to his mother it was apparent— 
when the blue-aproned nurse came into the 
northeast end of the maternity ward 
bearing his squeals and plump bottom 
looped up in a scant receiving blanket, 
bending, to pass the bundle carefully 
into the waiting mother-hands—that this 
was no cute little ugliness, no sly baby waywardness 
that was going to inch away 
as would baby fat, baby curl, and 
baby spot-rash. The pendulous lip, the 
branching ears, the eyes so wide and wild, 
the vague unvibrant brown of the skin, 
and, most disturbing, the great head. 
These components of That Look bespoke 
the sure fibre. The deep grain. 
His father could not bear the sight of him. 
His mother high-piled her pretty dyed hair and 
put him among her hairpins and sweethearts, 
dance slippers, torn paper roses. 
He was not less than these, 
he was not more. 
As the little Lincoln grew, 
uglily upward and out, he began 
to understand that something was 
wrong. His little ways of trying 
to please his father, the bringing 
of matches, the jumping aside at 
warning sound of oh-so-large and 
rushing stride, the smile that gave 
and gave and gave—Unsuccessful! 
Even Christmases and Easters were spoiled. 
He would be sitting at the 
family feasting table, really 
delighting in the displays of mashed potatoes 
and the rich golden 
fat-crust of the ham or the festive 
fowl, when he would look up and find 
somebody feeling indignant about him. 
What a pity what a pity. No love 
for one so loving. The little Lincoln 
loved Everybody. Ants. The changing 
caterpillar. His much-missing mother. 
His kindergarten teacher. 
His kindergarten teacher—whose 
concern for him was composed of one 
part sympathy and two parts repulsion. 
The others ran up with their little drawings. 
He ran up with his. 
She 
tried to be as pleasant with him as 
with others, but it was difficult. 
For she was all pretty! all daintiness, 
all tiny vanilla, with blue eyes and fluffy 
sun-hair. One afternoon she 
saw him in the hall looking bleak against 
the wall. It was strange because the 
bell had long since rung and no other 
child was in sight. Pity flooded her. 
She buttoned her gloves and suggested 
cheerfully that she walk him home. She 
started out bravely, holding him by the 
hand. But she had not walked far before 
she regretted it. The little monkey. 
Must everyone look? And clutching her 
hand like that. . . . Literally pinching 
it. . . . 
At seven, the little Lincoln loved 
the brother and sister who 
moved next door. Handsome. Well-
dressed. Charitable, often, to him. They 
enjoyed him because he was 
resourceful, made up 
games, told stories. But when 
their More Acceptable friends came they turned 
their handsome backs on him. He 
hated himself for his feeling 
of well-being when with them despite— 
Everything. 
He spent much time looking at himself 
in mirrors. What could be done? 
But there was no 
shrinking his head. There was no 
binding his ears. 
“Don’t touch me!” cried the little 
fairy-like being in the playground. 
Her name was Nerissa. The many 
children were playing tag, but when 
he caught her, she recoiled, jerked free 
and ran. It was like all the 
rainbow that ever was, going off 
forever, all, all the sparklings in 
the sunset west. 
One day, while he was yet seven, 
a thing happened. In the down-town movies 
with his mother a white 
man in the seat beside him whispered 
loudly to a companion, and pointed at 
the little Linc. 
“THERE! That’s the kind I’ve been wanting 
to show you! One of the best 
examples of the specie. Not like 
those diluted Negroes you see so much of on 
the streets these days, but the 
real thing. 
Black, ugly, and odd. You 
can see the savagery. The blunt 
blankness. That is the real 
thing.” 
His mother—her hair had never looked so 
red around the dark brown 
velvet of her face—jumped up, 
shrieked “Go to—” She did not finish. 
She yanked to his feet the little 
Lincoln, who was sitting there 
staring in fascination at his assessor. At the author of his 
new idea. 
All the way home he was happy. Of course, 
he had not liked the word 
“ugly.” 
But, after all, should he not 
be used to that by now? What had 
struck him, among words and meanings 
he could little understand, was the phrase 
“the real thing.” 
He didn’t know quite why, 
but he liked that. 
He liked that very much. 
When he was hurt, too much 
stared at— 
too much 
left alone—he 
thought about that. He told himself 
“After all, I’m 
the real thing.” 
It comforted him. 
The Lovers Of The Poor 
arrive. The Ladies from the Ladies' Betterment League 
Arrive in the afternoon, the late light slanting 
In diluted gold bars across the boulevard brag 
Of proud, seamed faces with mercy and murder hinting 
Here, there, interrupting, all deep and debonair, 
The pink paint on the innocence of fear; 
Walk in a gingerly manner up the hall. 
Cutting with knives served by their softest care, 
Served by their love, so barbarously fair. 
Whose mothers taught: You'd better not be cruel! 
You had better not throw stones upon the wrens! 
Herein they kiss and coddle and assault 
Anew and dearly in the innocence 
With which they baffle nature. Who are full, 
Sleek, tender-clad, fit, fiftyish, a-glow, all 
Sweetly abortive, hinting at fat fruit, 
Judge it high time that fiftyish fingers felt 
Beneath the lovelier planes of enterprise. 
To resurrect. To moisten with milky chill. 
To be a random hitching-post or plush. 
To be, for wet eyes, random and handy hem. 
Their guild is giving money to the poor. 
The worthy poor. The very very worthy 
And beautiful poor. Perhaps just not too swarthy? 
perhaps just not too dirty nor too dim 
Nor--passionate. In truth, what they could wish 
Is--something less than derelict or dull. 
Not staunch enough to stab, though, gaze for gaze! 
God shield them sharply from the beggar-bold! 
The noxious needy ones whose battle's bald 
Nonetheless for being voiceless, hits one down. 
But it's all so bad! and entirely too much for them. 
The stench; the urine, cabbage, and dead beans, 
Dead porridges of assorted dusty grains, 
The old smoke, heavy diapers, and, they're told, 
Something called chitterlings. The darkness. Drawn 
Darkness, or dirty light. The soil that stirs. 
The soil that looks the soil of centuries. 
And for that matter the general oldness. Old 
Wood. Old marble. Old tile. Old old old. 
Not homekind Oldness! Not Lake Forest, Glencoe. 
Nothing is sturdy, nothing is majestic, 
There is no quiet drama, no rubbed glaze, no 
Unkillable infirmity of such 
A tasteful turn as lately they have left, 
Glencoe, Lake Forest, and to which their cars 
Must presently restore them. When they're done 
With dullards and distortions of this fistic 
Patience of the poor and put-upon. 
They've never seen such a make-do-ness as 
Newspaper rugs before! In this, this 'flat,' 
Their hostess is gathering up the oozed, the rich 
Rugs of the morning (tattered! the bespattered. . . .) 
Readies to spread clean rugs for afternoon. 
Here is a scene for you. The Ladies look, 
In horror, behind a substantial citizeness 
Whose trains clank out across her swollen heart. 
Who, arms akimbo, almost fills a door. 
All tumbling children, quilts dragged to the floor 
And tortured thereover, potato peelings, soft-
Eyed kitten, hunched-up, haggard, to-be-hurt. 
Their League is allotting largesse to the Lost. 
But to put their clean, their pretty money, to put 
Their money collected from delicate rose-fingers 
Tipped with their hundred flawless rose-nails seems... 
They own Spode, Lowestoft, candelabra, 
Mantels, and hostess gowns, and sunburst clocks, 
Turtle soup, Chippendale, red satin 'hangings,' 
Aubussons and Hattie Carnegie. They Winter 
In Palm Beach; cross the Water in June; attend, 
When suitable, the nice Art Institute; 
Buy the right books in the best bindings; saunter 
On Michigan, Easter mornings, in sun or wind. 
Oh Squalor! This sick four-story hulk, this fibre 
With fissures everywhere! Why, what are bringings 
Of loathe-love largesse? What shall peril hungers 
So old old, what shall flatter the desolate? 
Tin can, blocked fire escape and chitterling 
And swaggering seeking youth and the puzzled wreckage 
Of the middle passage, and urine and stale shames 
And, again, the porridges of the underslung 
And children children children. Heavens! That 
Was a rat, surely, off there, in the shadows? Long 
And long-tailed? Gray? The Ladies from the Ladies' 
Betterment League agree it will be better 
To achieve the outer air that rights and steadies, 
To hie to a house that does not holler, to ring 
Bells elsetime, better presently to cater 
To no more Possibilities, to get 
Away. Perhaps the money can be posted. 
Perhaps they two may choose another Slum! 
Some serious sooty half-unhappy home!-Where 
loathe-love likelier may be invested. 
Keeping their scented bodies in the center 
Of the hall as they walk down the hysterical hall, 
They allow their lovely skirts to graze no wall, 
Are off at what they manage of a canter, 
And, resuming all the clues of what they were, 
Try to avoid inhaling the laden air. 
The Mother 
Abortions will not let you forget. 
You remember the children you got that you did not get, 
The damp small pulps with a little or with no hair, 
The singers and workers that never handled the air. 
You will never neglect or beat 
Them, or silence or buy with a sweet. 
You will never wind up the sucking-thumb 
Or scuttle off ghosts that come. 
You will never leave them, controlling your luscious sigh, 
Return for a snack of them, with gobbling mother-eye. 
I have heard in the voices of the wind the voices of my dim killed 
children. 
I have contracted. I have eased 
My dim dears at the breasts they could never suck. 
I have said, Sweets, if I sinned, if I seized 
Your luck 
And your lives from your unfinished reach, 
If I stole your births and your names, 
Your straight baby tears and your games, 
Your stilted or lovely loves, your tumults, your marriages, aches, 
and your deaths, 
If I poisoned the beginnings of your breaths, 
Believe that even in my deliberateness I was not deliberate. 
Though why should I whine, 
Whine that the crime was other than mine?-Since 
anyhow you are dead. 
Or rather, or instead, 
You were never made. 
But that too, I am afraid, 
Is faulty: oh, what shall I say, how is the truth to be said? 
You were born, you had body, you died. 
It is just that you never giggled or planned or cried. 
Believe me, I loved you all. 
Believe me, I knew you, though faintly, and I loved, I loved you 
All. 
The Rites For Cousin Vit 
Carried her unprotesting out the door. 
Kicked back the casket-stand. But it can't hold her, 
That stuff and satin aiming to enfold her, 
The lid's contrition nor the bolts before. 
Oh oh. Too much. Too much. Even now, surmise, 
She rises in the sunshine. There she goes, 
Back to the bars she knew and the repose 
In love-rooms and the things in people's eyes. 
Too vital and too squeaking. Must emerge. 
Even now she does the snake-hips with a hiss, 
Slops the bad wine across her shantung, talks 
Of pregnancy, guitars and bridgework, walks 
In parks or alleys, comes haply on the verge 
Of happiness, haply hysterics. Is. 
The Sermon On The Warpland 
“The fact that we are black 
is our ultimate reality.” 
—Ron Karenga 
And several strengths from drowsiness campaigned 
but spoke in Single Sermon on the warpland. 
And went about the warpland saying No. 
“My people, black and black, revile the River. 
Say that the River turns, and turn the River. 
Say that our Something in doublepod contains 
sees for the coming hell and health together. 
Prepare to meet 
(sisters, brothers) the brash and terrible weather; 
the pains; 
the bruising; the collapse of bestials, idols. 
But then oh then!—the stuffing of the hulls! 
the seasoning of the perilousl sweet! 
the health! The heralding of the clear obscure! 
Build now your Church, my brothers, sisters. Build 
never with brick or Corten nor with granite. 
Build with lithe love. With love like lion-eyes. 
with love like morningrise. 
with love like black, our black— 
luminously indiscreet; 
complete; continuous.” 
The Sonnet-Ballad 
Oh mother, mother, where is happiness? 
They took my lover's tallness off to war, 
Left me lamenting. Now I cannot guess 
What I can use an empty heart-cup for. 
He won't be coming back here any more. 
Some day the war will end, but, oh, I knew 
When he went walking grandly out that door 
That my sweet love would have to be untrue. 
Would have to be untrue. Would have to court 
Coquettish death, whose impudent and strange 
Possessive arms and beauty (of a sort) 
Can make a hard man hesitate--and change. 
And he will be the one to stammer, "Yes." 
Oh mother, mother, where is happiness? 
The Sundays Of Satin-Legs Smith 
Inamoratas, with an approbation, 
Bestowed his title. Blessed his inclination. 
He wakes, unwinds, elaborately: a cat 
Tawny, reluctant, royal. He is fat 
And fine this morning. Definite. Reimbursed. 
He waits a moment, he designs his reign, 
That no performance may be plain or vain. 
Then rises in a clear delirium. 
He sheds, with his pajamas, shabby days. 
And his desertedness, his intricate fear, the 
Postponed resentments and the prim precautions. 
Now, at his bath, would you deny him lavender 
Or take away the power of his pine? 
What smelly substitute, heady as wine, 
Would you provide? life must be aromatic. 
There must be scent, somehow there must be some. 
Would you have flowers in his life? suggest 
Asters? a Really Good geranium? 
A white carnation? would you prescribe a Show 
With the cold lilies, formal chrysanthemum 
Magnificence, poinsettias, and emphatic 
Red of prize roses? might his happiest 
Alternative (you muse) be, after all, 
A bit of gentle garden in the best 
Of taste and straight tradition? Maybe so. 
But you forget, or did you ever know, 
His heritage of cabbage and pigtails, 
Old intimacy with alleys, garbage pails, 
Down in the deep (but always beautiful) South 
Where roses blush their blithest (it is said) 
And sweet magnolias put Chanel to shame. 
No! He has not a flower to his name. 
Except a feather one, for his lapel. 
Apart from that, if he should think of flowers 
It is in terms of dandelions or death. 
Ah, there is little hope. You might as well— 
Unless you care to set the world a-boil 
And do a lot of equalizing things, 
Remove a little ermine, say, from kings, 
Shake hands with paupers and appoint them men, 
For instance—certainly you might as well 
Leave him his lotion, lavender and oil. 
Let us proceed. Let us inspect, together 
With his meticulous and serious love, 
The innards of this closet. Which is a vault 
Whose glory is not diamonds, not pearls, 
Not silver plate with just enough dull shine. 
But wonder-suits in yellow and in wine, 
Sarcastic green and zebra-striped cobalt. 
With shoulder padding that is wide 
And cocky and determined as his pride; 
Ballooning pants that taper off to ends 
Scheduled to choke precisely.
 Here are hats 
Like bright umbrellas; and hysterical ties 
Like narrow banners for some gathering war. 
People are so in need, in need of help. 
People want so much that they do not know. 
Below the tinkling trade of little coins 
The gold impulse not possible to show 
Or spend. Promise piled over and betrayed. 
These kneaded limbs receive the kiss of silk. 
Then they receive the brave and beautiful 
Embrace of some of that equivocal wool. 
He looks into his mirror, loves himself— 
The neat curve here; the angularity 
That is appropriate at just its place; 
The technique of a variegated grace. 
Here is all his sculpture and his art 
And all his architectural design. 
Perhaps you would prefer to this a fine 
Value of marble, complicated stone. 
Would have him think with horror of baroque, 
Rococo. You forget and you forget. 
He dances down the hotel steps that keep 
Remnants of last night’s high life and distress. 
As spat-out purchased kisses and spilled beer. 
He swallows sunshine with a secret yelp. 
Passes to coffee and a roll or two. 
Has breakfasted.
 Out. Sounds about him smear, 
Become a unit. He hears and does not hear 
The alarm clock meddling in somebody’s sleep; 
Children’s governed Sunday happiness; 
The dry tone of a plane; a woman’s oath; 
Consumption’s spiritless expectoration; 
An indignant robin’s resolute donation 
Pinching a track through apathy and din; 
Restaurant vendors weeping; and the L 
That comes on like a slightly horrible thought. 
Pictures, too, as usual, are blurred. 
He sees and does not see the broken windows 
Hiding their shame with newsprint; little girl 
With ribbons decking wornness, little boy 
Wearing the trousers with the decentest patch, 
To honor Sunday; women on their way 
From “service,” temperate holiness arranged 
Ably on asking faces; men estranged 
From music and from wonder and from joy 
But far familiar with the guiding awe 
Of foodlessness.
 He loiters.
 Restaurant vendors 
Weep, or out of them rolls a restless glee. 
The Lonesome Blues, the Long-lost Blues, I Want A 
Big Fat Mama. Down these sore avenues 
Comes no Saint-Saëns, no piquant elusive Grieg, 
And not Tschaikovsky’s wayward eloquence 
And not the shapely tender drift of Brahms. 
But could he love them? Since a man must bring 
To music what his mother spanked him for 
When he was two: bits of forgotten hate, 
Devotion: whether or not his mattress hurts: 
The little dream his father humored: the thing 
His sister did for money: what he ate 
For breakfast—and for dinner twenty years 
Ago last autumn: all his skipped desserts. 
The pasts of his ancestors lean against 
Him. Crowd him. Fog out his identity. 
Hundreds of hungers mingle with his own, 
Hundreds of voices advise so dexterously 
He quite considers his reactions his, 
Judges he walks most powerfully alone, 
That everything is—simply what it is. 
But movie-time approaches, time to boo 
The hero’s kiss, and boo the heroine 
Whose ivory and yellow it is sin 
For his eye to eat of. The Mickey Mouse, 
However, is for everyone in the house. 
Squires his lady to dinner at Joe’s Eats. 
His lady alters as to leg and eye, 
Thickness and height, such minor points as these, 
From Sunday to Sunday. But no matter what 
Her name or body positively she’s 
In Queen Lace stockings with ambitious heels 
That strain to kiss the calves, and vivid shoes 
Frontless and backless, Chinese fingernails, 
Earrings, three layers of lipstick, intense hat 
Dripping with the most voluble of veils. 
Her affable extremes are like sweet bombs 
About him, whom no middle grace or good 
Could gratify. He had no education 
In quiet arts of compromise. He would 
Not understand your counsels on control, nor 
Thank you for your late trouble.
 At Joe’s Eats 
You get your fish or chicken on meat platters. 
With coleslaw, macaroni, candied sweets, 
Coffee and apple pie. You go out full. 
(The end is—isn’t it?—all that really matters.) 
And even and intrepid come 
The tender boots of night to home.
 Her body is like new brown bread 
Under the Woolworth mignonette. 
Her body is a honey bowl 
Whose waiting honey is deep and hot, 
Her body is like summer earth, 
Receptive, soft, and absolute ... 
The Vacant Lot 
Mrs. Coley’s three-flat brick 
Isn’t here any more. 
All done with seeing her fat little form 
Burst out of the basement door; 
And with seeing her African son-in-law 
(Rightful heir to the throne) 
With his great white strong cold squares of teeth 
And his little eyes of stone; 
And with seeing the squat fat daughter 
Letting in the men 
When majesty has gone for the day— 
And letting them out again. 
To Be In Love 
To be in love 
Is to touch with a lighter hand. 
In yourself you stretch, you are well. 
You look at things 
Through his eyes. 
A cardinal is red. 
A sky is blue. 
Suddenly you know he knows too. 
He is not there but 
You know you are tasting together 
The winter, or a light spring weather. 
His hand to take your hand is overmuch. 
Too much to bear. 
You cannot look in his eyes 
Because your pulse must not say 
What must not be said. 
When he 
Shuts a door-
Is not there_ 
Your arms are water. 
And you are free 
With a ghastly freedom. 
You are the beautiful half 
Of a golden hurt. 
You remember and covet his mouth 
To touch, to whisper on. 
Oh when to declare 
Is certain Death! 
Oh when to apprize 
Is to mesmerize, 
To see fall down, the Column of Gold, 
Into the commonest ash. 
Anonymous submission. 
To The Diaspora 
you did not know you were Afrika 
When you set out for Afrika 
you did not know you were going. 
Because 
you did not know you were Afrika. 
You did not know the Black continent 
that had to be reached 
was you. 
I could not have told you then that some sun 
would come, 
somewhere over the road, 
would come evoking the diamonds 
of you, the Black continent-somewhere 
over the road. 
You would not have believed my mouth. 
When I told you, meeting you somewhere close 
to the heat and youth of the road, 
liking my loyalty, liking belief, 
you smiled and you thanked me but very little believed me. 
Here is some sun. Some. 
Now off into the places rough to reach. 
Though dry, though drowsy, all unwillingly a-wobble, 
into the dissonant and dangerous crescendo. 
Your work, that was done, to be done to be done to be done. 
Tommy 
I put my seed into the ground 
And said, 'I'll watch it grow.' 
I watered it and cared for it 
As well as I could know. 
One day I walked in my back yard, 
And oh. what did I see! 
My seed had popped itself right out 
Without consulting me. 
Truth 
And if sun comes 
How shall we greet him? 
Shall we not dread him, 
Shall we not fear him 
After so lengthy a 
Session with shade? 
Though we have wept for him, 
Though we have prayed 
All through the night-years— 
What if we wake one shimmering morning to 
Hear the fierce hammering 
Of his firm knuckles 
Hard on the door? 
Shall we not shudder?— 
Shall we not flee 
Into the shelter, the dear thick shelter 
Of the familiar 
Propitious haze? 
Sweet is it, sweet is it 
To sleep in the coolness 
Of snug unawareness. 
The dark hangs heavily 
Over the eyes. 
We Real Cool 
The Pool Players. 
Seven at the Golden Shovel. 
We real cool. We 
Left school. We 
Lurk late. We 
Strike straight. We 
Sing sin. We 
Thin gin. We 
Jazz June. We 
Die soon. 
When You Have Forgotten Sunday: The Love Story 
—And when you have forgotten the bright bedclothes on a Wednesday and a 
Saturday, 
And most especially when you have forgotten Sunday— 
When you have forgotten Sunday halves in bed, 
Or me sitting on the front-room radiator in the limping afternoon 
Looking off down the long street 
To nowhere, 
Hugged by my plain old wrapper of no-expectation 
And nothing-I-have-to-do and I’m-happy-why? 
And if-Monday-never-had-to-come— 
When you have forgotten that, I say, 
And how you swore, if somebody beeped the bell, 
And how my heart played hopscotch if the telephone rang; 
And how we finally went in to Sunday dinner, 
That is to say, went across the front room floor to the ink-spotted table in the 
southwest corner 
To Sunday dinner, which was always chicken and noodles 
Or chicken and rice 
And salad and rye bread and tea 
And chocolate chip cookies— 
I say, when you have forgotten that, 
When you have forgotten my little presentiment 
That the war would be over before they got to you; 
And how we finally undressed and whipped out the light and flowed into bed, 
And lay loose-limbed for a moment in the week-end 
Bright bedclothes, 
Then gently folded into each other— 
When you have, I say, forgotten all that, 
Then you may tell, 
Then I may believe 
You have forgotten me well. 
Young Afrikans 
of the furious 
Who take Today and jerk it out of joint 
have made new underpinnings and a Head. 
Blacktime is time for chimeful 
poemhood 
but they decree a 
jagged chiming now. 
If there are flowers flowers 
must come out to the road. Rowdy!— 
knowing where wheels and people are, 
knowing where whips and screams are, 
knowing where deaths are, where the kind kills are. 
As for that other kind of kindness, 
if there is milk it must be mindful. 
The milkofhumankindness must be mindful 
as wily wines. 
Must be fine fury. 
Must be mega, must be main. 
Taking Today (to jerk it out of joint) 
the hardheroic maim the 
leechlike-as-usual who use, 
adhere to, carp, and harm. 
And they await, 
across the Changes and the spiraling dead, 
our Black revival, our Black vinegar, 
our hands, and our hot blood. 
